 <ICLE-GE-AUG-0004.1> 
Last month I moved from my parent's house to an own apartment near the centre of Augsburg. It's a little but lovely flat in one of these so called skyscrapers, but I'm living in the 9th floor and the cloudy sky still seems light years away. In one of my first days in my new apartment I met her out on the floor. She seemed to be aged about 35, a small woman, looking strong and powerful, dressed in an elegant green suit, that underlined in an incredible way the light soft colour of her green eyes and went extraordinary well with her fire-red hair . "Business woman" I thought at once. But then I realized her carrying ordinary heavy plastic bags, filled with fruit, cat food and baby clothing. She was about to open the door of the apartment next to mine and so I took the opportunity to introduce myself . "Hello", I said, "I'm your new neighbour". "Oh, nice to meet you, my name is Caroline Weber. Sorry, but I'm really in a great hurry, I have to get my kids from the kindergarten, maybe we can have some tea together tomorrow". Her voice was a surprise, actually, as it was so soft and tiny as if it belonged to a child .
"She really is an admirable person", Kathrin, a friend of mine who lives on the 7th floor still in the same huge house, told me . "She is working as the manageress of a model agency, and some years ago she was a model herself. You could see her photos in Vogue and Cosmopolitan she was an extraordinary beauty, and she still is. But four years ago her husband, who was a famous poet, died and left her pregnant and with a gorgeous little daughter. She had to superate really hard times in her life, but she finally made it and I think she can be very proud of herself." The following afternoon I was invited for tea at her apartment, which proved itself to be furnished in a cosy and lovely way. Me and Mrs Weber talked for hours this afternoon, her kids were playing in the living room and the cat was sitting on my knees. And I think they enjoyed my company as well because we now have our "tea hours" nearly every week .
