 <ICLE-GE-DRE-0001.1> 
The question whether homework is useful or not arouses strong contrary feelings and opinions within parents on the one hand and the whole teaching staff on the other. For that purpose it might be useful to discuss some points concerning the usefulness of homework within the teaching process .
The first and most important question is what homework can do for the review of learning material. Here the most spread opinion is that homework will continue the learning process by practising and applying knowledge in order to close lacks. At first sight that might be true, but the essential condition to reach this aim is that the homework is done by pupils in the first place. Some teachers object that especially in forms 8 to 10, homework isn't done anyway, and therefore there is no repetition at all .
A clue to that problem is to get pupils motivated for doing their homework for example by assigning problems with unknown solutions in order to review or to prepare pupils for new topics. With that procedure the teacher will reach a kind of tuning in to the new subject matters, and at the same time pupils will be informed about what's going on in the lessons. This last point is unfortunately underestimated by most of the teachers, they may object that such a dealing with unknown subject matters is only a waste of time. Moreover, often pupils are unable to find a problems solution themselves, and therefore they call such a procedure "occupational therapy".
Nevertheless I believe that motivation and orientation are fundamental components of every kind of education and that especially for motivational purposes it is essential to find opportunities to do pupils have a voice in lesson planning. If they can deal with topics they are interested in, I promise pupils will do their homework .
In addition to that and replying to the occupational-therapy-objection stated above it is worth mentioning that nothing within the learning process is to be seen as occupational therapy. At least homework can help in getting pupils used to work regularly, independently and plan accordingly. These things are general educational aims, they are supposed to support general upbringing and they develop and stabilize personal qualities. Therefore it does not surprise that most of the teachers who believe in these general aims give homework habitually .
Another problem which comes up is that especially young teachers live in fear for getting unpopular with pupils when giving homework. It could be observed that these unexperienced teachers who have problems to reach their lessons aims anyway cut out homework and lose all chances to educate pupils in the way the curriculum forces them to educate .
To sum up, I believe that homework can be useful depending on the purposes they are given for or the teacher pursues. Some dubious reasons for giving homework are (a)	to punish pupils disciplinary, or (b)	to cut down their sparetime .
Oddly enough, at that stage some parents want the teacher to function homework in that way in order to relieve parents of their duties in the process of upbringing their children. IF that is the one and only function of homework the motivational aspect gets lost completely and therefore in my opinion homework should be omitted .
