 <ICLE-GE-DRE-0019.1> 
Compared to the history of mankind it is only recently that environmental disasters effect nearly every person's life. Let me just take my own family. During the last ten years five people out of my greater family got some kind of permanent skin disease. They never had it before in their lives. Friends of mine tell me the same abut their families. Medicine says that those "new epidemics" may come from a change in the composition of sunlight that is reaching earth's surface. It is to assume - and partly proved - that men is directly to blame for that change by having caused the greenhouse effect and the ozone hole .
Other environmental changes brought along by mankind which effect more people today than ever before are: smogged cities, contaminated drinking water, nuclear catastrophes, increasing natural disasters (river floodings, droughts), or more and more people having some kind of chronic diseases (hay fever, skin cancer, ...).
Let's say I change my life in such a way that it would not anymore interfere with basic environmental circles. I don't drive anymore. Let's take the bike. It is for the most part made of steel. Consequently, somewhere on this earth there had been an iron-ore pit where the steel for the iron originally came from. Pits - if they are big enough, or plenty - will change the ground water level badly. Besides, to get steel out of iron-ore coal has to be burnt. Let's forget the bicycle therefore. Let's walk everywhere... Going on like this would mean going back to the most primitive society. This sounds great to me, but I am afraid of getting shot by my neighbour who did not like the idea of stepping back right into the ape's age .
What shall we do then? We all agree on the fact that changes have to be made to save our environment. Suggestions reach from going back to the Stone Age until artificially regulated ecosystems. To strike a happy medium it is desirable, I think, that everyone begins on his/her own to think about what small steps can be done by every single one of us. A first one might find that although going by tram is not the comfortable way it is still much better for the air in town. The other could suggest to her two colleagues which live in the same area to give them a lift to work and back. This does not only save some money but also gives some entertainment during the long and boring traffic congestion. Think of shopping, another area: how many times were you standing in front of a shelve, comparing the different prices for the same product. Sometimes you even care about the environment by checking if the manufacturer is incorporated in the "Grüne Punkt" system. This system institutionalised for most of us a wise management of waste material which was kind to nature. But some weeks ago we have been taught a different story about that system. It is just a label, just something to make us feel good, whereas in reality nothing has practically changed. Again, that means we have to use our own judgement. Instead of asking for the "Grüne Punkt" label you should cling to things that tell more obviously about how the producer handles the environmental issue: look how many packages you have to unwrap until you get to the toothpaste, or what paper they use to print the news on for you .
We do not really have to change our way of life but only the speed and intensity in which we push for a more and more "comfortable" life. Of course, even the basic values of our society like a house for every family or mass production of goods to make them cheaper are called into question by some brave men and women. Although their idea of a decentralisation of societies has some good points, their time has not come yet. Meanwhile, until our consumerism has reached the dead end, we can prolong that Golden Age by screwing down our standards a little bit .
