 <ICLE-GE-DRE-0017.1> 
When about two hundred years ago Immanuel Kant and other great philosophers developed the idea of enlightenment, the future of mankind seemed to be perfectly clear: after centuries of ignorance and darkness mankind would experience a perpetual rise towards progress and meaningfulness. Using its supposedly unlimited potential of reason, mankind would be able to free itself from ignorance as well as to establish a new and just society. These high ideals did not last long, after a astonishingly short time in terms of history the whole concept of enlightenment has crashed bitterly. Is it the absolut pessimists who are eventually right than? Is it Cicero, who claimed that "Man is his own worst enemy", or Hobbes who believed human society to be nothing than a fierce fight of everybody against everybody, who actually know what human life is all about? I am afraid they were, and this essay is designed to find some arguments supporting this rather discouraging notion .
Starting with the concept of democracy in modern western societies, one has to realize that it is far from being truly democratic. Although this concept is undeniably more democratic than societies elsewhere, self-righteousness, ignorance of the voters will, and a self-service-mantality of its political leaders can hardly be overseen. Furthermore, minorities as women, gays, or aliens are still being discriminated, as the recently changed laws concerning abortion or foreigners claiming political asylum clearly prove. The uprising of notions that life's purpose is but to make a career and to gather as much money and material goods as possible while simultaneously values like tolerance, mercy, or justice, by the way, exactly the values of genuine democracy, are more and more neglected reminds me very much of a struggle of everyone against everybody .
Since reason can apperently not be the actual driving force in history, we have to ask what it is than that brings human society forward, and, more important, what is it, that spoils every attempt to establish a really just and democratic society. I think we have to seek the answer in evolutionary theory. Amongst a great deal of other ideas highly apt to serve as answers for many human problems, this theory suggests each individual, animals as well as human beings, considering itself as the absolutely central point of its world. This implies that all its fears, preferences, loves, and all sorts of feelings and emotions are the most important ones in the world. Hence everybody of us, consciously or not, tends to believe himself or herself being the most important individual in the world. Whereas people may call this egoism, it is absolutely essential for nature which has devised it as a mechanism ensuring each individual's will to survive. I am entirely aware of the shortness and simplicity of any presentation of a in fact highly complex matter. At any rate, it seems due to justify the claim that mankind is simply not able to establish genuine democracy .
All these arguments might be heavily argued and rejected as too pessimistic and totally neglecting people's ability to free themselves from nature. But I believe that our ability to part with nature, with instinct - like behaviour, and some habits inherited from an unimaginably long string of ancestors is very often tremendously exaggerated. Everything we do is very likely for less rational than we find to believe. Of course, I do not want to present the image of people driven by an allmighty nature and totally dependent on some sort of destination. But evidently the large extend of unreasonable behaviour of mankind does not at all correspond with our alledgedly overwhelming potential of reason. Since the concept of democracy is very much dominated by the supposed virtue of reason amongst man, I really dare to doubt the possibility to actually make it come true .
