 <ICLE-GE-DRE-0005.1> 
Opinions are different of what is important about Christmas all may agree that Christmas is a time when people are together in their families hoping to find some rest, a time when candles are lit, Christmas Carols are sung .
But funnily enough just this time of the year, when rest is longed for most, is preceded by an unusual industry. Even if one tries to evade the rush on presents one seems to be attracted to it almost magically. At the lates if one realizes that sometheing has to be bought to give for Christmas one joins the run through the shops .
But the reason why presents are exchanged at Christmas does not seem to play a big role. Usually the contemporary German does not feel the need to receive anything else than what he can provide for himself by his own labour. Because Germans work hard the wealth of our nation is constantly increasing and Christmas presents can become more extravagant every year. Nothing should be impossible. So Christmas keeps more every year, more than what it promisses?
The rising expenses people (especially parents) take to make others happy at Christmas do not only show the rising riches of some but also tell of the compensational function of presents .
Immaterial things like love, time for each other which friends and especially children have been deprived of are substituted by toys. Hopefully people do not really believe in the adequate value of those presents .
And yet, one more thing apart from presents, roast goos and Christmas tree belong to a "proper" Christmas Eve. For the rest of the year, "spiritual matters" are not much thought of but at Christmas going to church seems to be a must. Otherwise the crowded churches can not be accounted for. Whether it is only a matter of tradition or whether the tinsel around Christmas is felt not to be all, anyway, people stream to the churches .
Would Christmas keep what it promisses without having seen and listen to what Christmas is really about?
There are different reasons if people thing that their Christmas has kept what it had promissed. Either one does not expect more than a good meal, new cloths, CDs, books and other things to stuff one's house with or one has, added to that, allowed oneself this spiritual experience once again (beeing the first and the last in the year) whether it be a real need that is remembered always at that particular time or whether it be to keep up a tradition .
Others may have celebrated Christmas in memory of what had happened 2000 years ago and may have found (apart from the presents under the Christmas tree) hope despite the darkness in the world, hope not only for themselves but hope and a little joy to give to those who are often forgotten when everybody is sitting in a warm house at a table covered with plenty of food .
Can Christmas not only then keep what it promisses if people accept what has been given to mankind by Christmas and after that try to find their own presents for others?
