 <ICLE-GE-DRE-0002.1> 
When I am in Dresden and the weather is nice, the sun burns and I cannot stand the heat any longer I always wish I were in our garden at home, lying in the sun, relaxing and doing nothing. Then I realize what an allotment is worth .
That leads me to the topic I want to write about: I am convinced that a garden is useful and improves life, too. I think that for people who have the right attitude to work - because "No pains, no gains" - a garden has only advantages .
An allotment is a small piece of land let or assigned to an individual for cultivation as a family garden. As a rule it is 200 - 400 metres square, fenced round and a summerhouse is build on it. Usually allotments are situated on the outskirts of a town, in most cases they are united in colonies. An allotment is mainly used for relaxation and gardening, especially the cultivation of fruits and vegetables for one's own personal use is important .
"Schrebergärten" are named after Daniel Schreber (1808-1861), a German doctor and educationalist, who had laid out playgrounds with beds for children. Later gardens for adults were added .
This is the starting point for me to show one advantage of an allotment. Daniel Schreber organized public playgrounds connected with beds. The purpose was to give children space for playing in an undamaged environment. Today families with children often live in busy streets. If the children want to play outside they of necessity play near the street. Everybody knows that at the edge of a street the air is not fresh. Furthermore the space for playing is extremely limited. If you have a garden which is laid out child-oriented your children can play undisturbed there, you do not have to be anxious about them all the time. The allotment gives the children a possibility to play in a safe and healthy environment, in a playground distant from streets and cars, distant from the dangerous traffic and exhaust fumes .
That leads me to another point - the air-pollution in a garden is lower than in a city centre. Allotments are mostly to be found at the outskirts of a town or city, so that there are not so much exhaust gases from industry and traffic. You can taken fresh air, enriched with oxygen, to manage the stressful weekdays and to compensate the lack of oxygen .
When I hear "garden" I always associate it with relaxation. The meadow, the shady trees, the swing hammock, the deck chair - these are excellent places for lying and having a rest. You sleep or read, invite friends, sit in front of the summerhouse till late in the evening, barbecue, bask in the sun, play badminton - in short you do all the things you do not find the time to do it during the week. Assuming that somebody lives in a town and has a flat without balcony an allotment is the only place where it is possible to lie and bath in the sun without other people's looks .
Gardening is a nice counterpart to office work. Sitting in an office the whole day is bade for body and health, exercise is missing. If you do a little bit in a garden every day this lack will be compensated or at least reduced. During this manual work problems in the job will be pushed into the background, one can work off one's trouble so that nobody has to suffer from it .
Having an own allotment means having fruits, vegetables and flowers every year. First it is nice to follow the development of the plants - from little sprouts to colourful flowers. Furthermore flowers bring pleasure - for you as the owner of the garden as well as for somebody else who gets the flowers as a present from you. From my own personal experience I know that flowers make people happy. It is a wonderful feeling for me when I stand at the garden gate and let my eye travel over the garden: everything is green and blooms - it looks like a little paradise .
The next advantage is that you have your own harvest. I like to pick the apples, pears, cherries, plums, quinces, redcurrants, blackcurrants, gooseberries, raspberries and brambles. This year we even had a lot of peaches. After working in the garden you always see what you have done and this is very stimulating. The beauty of the flowers and the crop remunerate you for the effort .
There are two other things which show the usefulness of an allotment regarding to the crop. The first is the price. As an owner of an allotment it is very cheap to get fruits and berries, because the trees and shrubs need no special cultivation. They only need water and from time to time you have to cut them. As we all know homegrown fruits are very expensive. Furthermore the fact that you know what you eat is of great importance. You decide whether you fertilize or not and in which quantity. Since the shopkeepers pay attention to the faultless appearance of their products, for instance very big and smooth apples, it is good to know how the apple was treated .
Finally I want to add the use of a garden as a habitat for animals. Hedgehogs, frogs, toads and chafers are well in this idyll. Birds are singing in the trees, they are also glad about the oasis amongst noise and concrete .
The great number of allotments shows that they are well received. You can check whether I am right with the enumeration of advantages by asking allotment gardeners. Try to find out what is dominating for them all in all - effort of fun? I suppose they will answer without hesitation that it cannot be denied that an allotment requires a lot of work but they are glad to have a piece of land of their own. I am sure you will hear a bit of pride in their voices .
