 <ICLE-GE-SAL-0009.5> 
Another morning, another getting up, another dreadful day. You can't do anything about it. I break another stroke into the bad plastering of the cell And one more time start counting them till the ward comes to take me into the washingroom. I can't remember when I last came to an end counting .
Shower yourself being watched scrutinizingly by a ward, but anyway breakfast is waiting - and afterwards it's working stint. The only time of the day I do not wonder how to pass for I am let alone with my work. I am a former CID officer "caught, charged and found guilty" by the judge I had been investigating. What do you think of that? I personally have given up thinking about this a long time ago, but the others haven't. The wards eye me despectively and there are no fellows to be found among the prisoners either. I am hit by either group. No , I prefer sitting in front of my cabinet surrounded by my tools repairing tables, stools and benches that either out - or in laws have ruined. After midday and lunch, which I have at a table of my own I am usually molested by my fellows during the whole break. They used to beat me through out in the ' "play-pen', until I was, as the governor put it, "granted" a special warder. Although talking to him has so far proved a useless effort, I will go on trying. At least it's conversation .
A 1 p.m. all prisoners get back to work again until 5 usually unless you are called out for visitors who are allowed in from 4 to 7. I have never been visited, so I always work till 5 o'clock. But today I shall see the psychiatrist at three so I will stop working 2 and 1 quarter of an hour earlier than the others .
A quarter to three: "Mr. Jefferson", it sounds in as the metallic door is opened with a clang. The ward waves me to come with him and together we leave the room. I feel some sort of relief as we strode along the hallways, silently. I don't know exactly, maybe it's the prospect of having someone to talk to. I mean to talk to; not to make conversation to. I don't give a damn whether he'll get paid for this or not. I'm so excited!
Standing in front of the door - trying to knock - hands clasped so tight - knuckles turn white - knock too loud - stepping in...
"Good afternoon, Mr Jefferson." I take a seat and we talk and talk and talk. After three hours I have to return to the prisoners' wing but nothing has altered. They have been returned to their cells, and so am I. At half past six there will be supper and then 1 hour of spare time to be spent in the "play-pen" or in front of a common T.V. set. Then you will be sent to the washingroom and returned to your cells. And at 10 sharp the lights are turned off .
