 <ICLE-GE-SAL-0001.3> 
Is there any reason for women to find their destiny in a household-life? I don't think so, at least, there is no natural reason. I agree that it's female mammals that bear the children, but that does not necessarily mean that women have to sacrifice their life to household .
Women represent half of the population, but they are still far to be half of the society - of course people are used to the picture of the housewife standing behind the stove wearing an apron and of two, three or more babies crawling on the floor. For hundreds of years a woman's job was to care for household and children. However, this was a woman's job in a man's world. But women started to question this set-up and to change it .
But everything has changed within the years, no matter if hygienic conditions, health care or technological progress is concerned, so why should the exercise of women always stay the same?
There have always been a few outstanding women in history, but a real change of the women's rôle in society is only possible when they get access to education. Access to profession and to politics can follow then .
The western society has seen the first steps of emancipation - Women's Liberation Movement - at the beginning of the 20th century. These women had to behave like men in their fight for women's rights. They have succeeded in gaining access to elections, to profession, to property .
The struggle for equal rights is not finished yet. However, the means are changing. Women nowadays are more conscient of their female forces, they now fight with "women's weapons".
In spite of all these changes our society has basically remained a patriachal one. It's true that women aren't limited to pure household work any more - they can take up an increasing number of jobs and some professions are already predominately female; but still these are mostly jobs connected with the traditional rôle of women. Despite women have been breaking into all areas, fro international chess championships to the church .
Many people still laugh at a woman doing a "male" job - they think she can't be as competent as a man would be. If she occupys a position like this, she will stay second, assistant .
Female work often ranks rather low. Often it is not regarded as work at all. Work that is carried out every day, at home, work that doesn't earn money is easily overlooked. And if a woman goes in for a professional career, she will soon find out that she has actually got two jobs: A paid and an unpaid one. And if she goes to work, her pay will probably be rather low, less than that of a man .
Women are moving up the carreer ladder as never before. They have made progress at every level as well as in every kind of industry. The number of women in senior positions has increased substantially over the last 20, particularly over the last ten years .
During this time they tried to involve women in the "world of work". - Now the economic development is stagnant and women are told better to stay at home. For me a reaction like this is a very big step to the past!
It's obvious that women have changed. What has not changed is the image of women in our society. A woman always has to be beautiful, young, slim and, to be perfect, have a good sense of humor .
And finally, for women success in their professions not as easy as for men and often situation is to explain with one sentence: Whatever women do they must do twice as well as men to be half as good .
