 <ICLE-GE-SAL-0015.3> 
 <*> <R> 
Happiness lies in what you are rather than in what you do. This rather simplistic statement would suggest that there was no way of getting happy, once feeling miserable. That seems very static to me! Although the world is very stagnant. One only has to look on the Balkan to blush ashamedly and ... look away?! What have Serbia, Croatia and Bosnia to do with happiness? Well, there is none. Those countries ARE at war and nobody DOES anything to establish real peace. Yet it is still not happiness you would create if such a peace treaty did show effect. People would probably tell you that they were glad, now that the war was over .
So, what is happiness: Happiness is something very obscure. Everybody knows it - and for myriads of years mankind has expierienced it - but no one would stammer much more than: <*> and so on. Who would dare to define what it is? It is positively different from joy, which is an exuberant flow of pleasant feelings culminating in warm and tight hugs for your friends. Happiness is something more silent than laughter. It occurs in a smile, in a friendly gesture or in a noble deed, although you yourself would not call it noble. It may as well give you a satisfactory emotion, a sense of contentness and may additionally contribute to your confidence. Happiness is also a feeling that makes you do things for others - it does not leave you isolated. Anyway this shall not become a pleading for happiness, which should be completely unnecessary. However there are people who live in isolation, grief or hatred and who do not dare to get a grip on life again; and this makes me come back to the actual theme. Aristoteles once defined happiness or eudaimony as he preferred to say, like this: <*> <R> . Now, what do these people lack to gain happiness or in other words wherein lies happiness for them .
In my opinion it is the teleology that they forget. I am speaking with Freud when I claim such people have lost or one could also say "lost" eyesight with their hopes (here "The Power and the Glory" comes in"). I tried to express that such people have given up strong hopes, hopes of love for instance, out of shyness - so far the saying is complete rubbish: shyness has to be paid for anytime - they are like Vladimir and Estragon (see quote) and distract themselves and thus exiting their lives. They abandon interests in anything else, pitiing themselves constantly. They avoid doing somthing that is IMPORTANT to them. They merely wait to be pulled out of this misery, for example by Godot. They do better take action now or they will be better off dead as depicted in Kafka's <*> , which is part of his most famous novel <*> . So happiness lies in what you do rather than in what you are?
But according to Aristoteles thinking will do. Do you do something when you think? Or does it depend on your teleology whether thinking will suffice. Well I have made the expierience that thinking things over and over again without taking action leads nowhere else but to confusion and despair. I always thought that "knowledge was power" yet I had to extend this sentence by "if used in time".
What is there left to prove? Since man could write all books take the concept of derived happiness and what is to be done to regain it, whether the protagonist succeeds or not is of minor importance .
