 <ICLE-GE-SAL-0002.3> 
Since the beginning of the 20th century the sutiation of women has understood considerable changes. The most important changes we can find in the fields of education and occupation. It is the situation in the professional life of women which makes changes in the private life possible .
At the end of the 19th century women worked in factories. They did not enjoy any social prestige. It was the First Worldwar which changed the situation of working women .
Due to the economic situation it was necessary for all classes of society to work. The absence of men forced women to do traditional masculin jobs. The professional standing women rose and they started to obtain the same rights as men already had .
The situation nowadays show us different tendencies. More and more women practise a profession. They are not only in their traditional role as a wife and mother. Less women stop working, because they have to bring up their children. And some women choose half-time jobs for having enough time for their kids .
Two factors play a very important role. The situation in the family and the degree of education. The daughters are treated in a completely different way than their brothers. The girls have to learn everything about family life, because in most cases the parents think in that old pattern: Women should be at home with the children, men should earn money but have their freedom as well. Due to that parent's point of view many girls can not get a propper education. But many parents start to change their minds. Women should be granted the same rights as men. They should have the possibility to work and to gain as much as men in the same position. But they get approx . 30% less than men. The higher we climb the ladder of success to look at the percentages women earn, we must confess that the higher the position the bigger the gap between male and female earnings are .
The problem of working women is their multiple charge. They have to do their job. The husbands want to be treated like she would be at home the whole day (for instance: The dinner must be on the table when they come home) and she is responsible for the children and the housekeeping. Fortunately some men try to think in another direction and help their wives in the house. Unfortunately, this is not the majority .
In addition, many women have bright minds and can help or bring new aspects into their field of profession. But nevertheless they should never forget, that they are the only ones who can give birth to children. No man can do that. So, even if women want to work, earn their own money and do not want to be dependent of their husbands', it is also important for them not to forget, that the children need them. A woman could also find everything through their children. The happiness, the laughter, the innocence of a child's heart are the seeds of creativity that give a mother more the acceptance in the business world .
I do not think that a woman's place is in the house. Not at all, actually. Women should come out of the houses and path the way for the next generations to the sectors of business. But anyway, being able to have children is, at least that is what I think, much more important than money or acceptance. We can learn more from children than at any university, school or profession. I really believe that .
