 <ICLE-GE-SAL-0005.4> 
In some states of the USA the death penalty is still executed .
Some people think that it is not right to punish someone by putting him to death. Another part of the population thinks that a person who kills humans deliberately, has lost the right to live. They are sure that it is bad enough to put him to jail for the rest of his life. They think that the danger is over as soon as the prison doors close behind him. What they do not know is that these people earn a certain kind of respect in jail. Hence, some of them have a better life in jail than outside. Of course they are still locked, but they are certainly not punished the way the judge intended it. I think it is no secret that mighty drug dealers are able to make business in jail. Locking up is a punishment for small criminals only. Powerful criminals still make money in jail, and they life on the costs of the small ones. Hence, the jail can not be a really effective punishment .
Killing murderers is a very fair punishment I guess. What should be changed or more specified is the law. If someone is really guilty like for example members of street gangs, who use automatic weapons, there is no reason for not punishing them as hard as possible. If there are doubts left, it is not reasonable to put him to death. Not those who kill unwillingly or by accident are enemies of the society. They are victims of coincidences or provocation and beyond certain levels, a human is no longer responsible for his actions. Only those who kill deliberate, for money or for fun should feel the cold breath of death. Even in this cases it is not the death that punishes. It is the way how it is done and even more than that, the waiting for the hour to come. Sitting in the cell and waiting, unable to do anything about it, that is the real punishment. Being just as helpless as the victim was .
According to police, violence is increasing. Crime develops every day and it is hard to stop or even fight it. Only if the laws are developing as fast as the crime does, there is a chance for us to obtain justice. In my opinion there should be a death penalty for real bad cases. If there are still doubts left it is better to send the defendant to jail .
If the case is clear there is only one way of punishment. According to the old Celtic proverb: "vengeance is a dish that is better eaten cold".
