 <ICLE-GE-SAL-0007.5> 
The first time I heard of this job I was pretty angry . "What could be worse than spending a day with a cop?", I thought. After a few days though my reservation seemed to be gone and so on April 2nd I met him, Inspector Harry "Snapper" Organs, policeman and comedian (as I should discover soon).
We met in front of the London Bridge police station at about 9 a.m.. He smiled at me when we shook hands and suddenly started reciting as if he had learned it by heart: "Getting up 6.55, bathroom till 7.18, breakfast till 7.42, final toilet finished at 8.07, kissing my wife at 8.13, train from Lower Beckenham at 8.27, arrival at London Bridge 8.42, on duty for about 3 minutes right now. Anything else you'd like to know?" He was grinning mischievously. I knew this would be a funny day .
First we did what he called the "Tower - St. Paul's - turn". In fact we were walking around the Tower of London twice, then went up Lower Thames Street to Cannon Street Station from where we went down Cannon Street to St. Paul's Cathedral and back again. It must have been a thousand questions Harry had to answer during our walk. There were "Nips' - as he used to call them - asking to get photographed, Germans looking for the nearest exchange or "Froggies" - another bit of police jargon - asking for the way to "ze Kazzedrel". I admired Harry who never lost his temper and calmly assisted every tourist desperately searching for a ' helping helmet'. Harry was the typical friendly bobby as extolled to foreigners in holiday catalogues .
After a short break at the police station he was sent to Speakers Corner where some Skinheads were said to have attacked a black preacher. On our arrival we discovered that a few colleagues of Harry's had already resolved the problem. So we took a short walk through Hyde Park where Harry had to remind a cyclist to use the cycle path and told another few tourists the way to Oxford Street . "You know", he said, "sometimes I feel like King Richard III." As I looked at him in astonishment he continued in a deep voice, "a horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse!". I think through this great Shakespearean performance he wanted to tell me that he'd much rather be a mounted policeman .
A bit later, when we had our lunch-break, he told me that he had to stay in the office in the afternoon to be on stand-by. During this time he and some of his colleagues told me about some ' real big police adventures' and of some well known outlaws and how Harry came by his nickname "Snapper". Suddenly, after we'd been talking for about three hours, the alarm bell rang. Another bomb-scare in London Bridge tube station. They all rushed out and only a few seconds later I could watch twelve policemen evacuating the platforms, the stairwells, the booking hall and finally closing down the whole station. Harry helped an old lady to collect her belongings that covered the floor after her handbag had been pushed out of her hand by a rushing passenger. Half an hour later the all-clear was given, the station reopened and people could get to their trains. Harry said grinning sarcasticly, he liked the IRA, the "make every day a D-day".
At 5.30 p.m. Harry left service. He told me he would get home now, have supper with his wife and later in the evening he would watch "the Hammers", his favorite football team, on television . "That's the day of an ordinary policeman", he said as he shook my hand; I thanked him for his kindness to let me spend the day with him and went with him to the station. He was a nice an and I learned what a tough job being a policeman must be .
