 <ICLE-IT-BER-0003.2> 
The internal-combustion engine is a very useful invention we owe a lot to: we can enjoy cars as a very comfortable means of transport, which most people can afford. Thanks to the high level of technology and the continual progress cars are safer and speedier than ever with a full range of accessories, but nearly nothing has been done in order to reduce the degree of pollution they produce .
Nowadays a host of people possess their own automobile. On one hand this is a positive sign of our welfare, but on the other hand it is quite alarming in consideration of the disastrous environmental effect .
Not only does the combustion process of the petrol pollute the air, damage the ancient buildings and cause serious diseas of our breathing organs, but also the way this kind of energy is obtained in spoils the environment .
I firmly believe that much could be done to solve this big problem, but there is not a real will to face it. In my opinion a lot of economic interests prevent from acting in the right way .
First of all today's laws are not so severe or anyway made to respect as due .
Besides a possible solution could be the definitive closure of the city centres to the traffic with a contemporaneous promotion of the public means of transport that also should be less expensive .
Then the development of alternative sources of energy could represent a step in the right direction .
Electrical-engined cars, as well as ecological petroil and catalytic convertor exist, but they aren't spread enough, because their costs are not so low and there is not a proper advertising campaign .
Nothing seems to be made to stimulate people in order not to pollute! Some time ago a very peculiar sort of car was produced by a French automobile industry that allowed you to save a lot of money, because it needed only a very small quantity of fuel to run hundred miles. I saw only twice its advertisement on television: the car was retired from the market and put it in a * nice * museum. The reason? Too many big companies' earnings would be reduced .
In conclusion, I think that it is necessary to make people aware of the problem concerning the pollution caused by cars and undertake real initiatives to try to resolve it. But I am a little pessimist and I am convinced that untill there will be a drop of oil, no solutions to the problem will be found, so I believe it is useless searching them .
