 <ICLE-IT-BER-0001.3> 
Recently it has been done the clone of a sheep. It was in a laboratory in Edimburgh. A big success for the scientists, it has been seen as a danger by public opinion. The danger is the possibility of the cloning of human beings. Leading scientists are trying to convince people that it would be a great advantage as a solution to several diseases. Indeed, a clone of a human being could be a reserve of organs, available for trasnplantings. It could seem a good thing if it is said in this way, but if you think more carefully about the implications, you could be terrified. One of the first dangers it would be the feeling of * uselessness * for men. Indeed, it would be possible to have children, very similar to the mother, without the male cell. I think it would be the negation of one of the most important aspects in love relationships. How could a man feel himself a * real father *? Probably another danger is that people could have beings, which which would be very similar copies, to * use * for activities they wouldn't feel like to. These copies would be almost perfect creatures, a sort of monsters, that would be brought to life but destined and ready to die because born or created only to give parts of their body. And what would they do while waiting for a disease of their * owners *? How could they live?
I think this technology is going to non natural and to developments against nature. I know that it is not a new thing but I think scientists are exaggerating to make our life more and more artificial .
In a society that denies the identity of every person or the identity of most people, I wonder what identity could these creatures have .
Besides, I have read in a newspaper that Saddam Hussein has already claimed that he wants a clone of himself. Who knows how many rich people will pay (or are paying) for a cloning of themselves? How many dangerous persons will pay scientists for it? I have said that they would have to pay because the process and the research for the colning of human beings has been forbidden by every government, so it would need to put up secret laboratories and obviously it would be a very expensive operation, not only the place but also the employment of scientists. The Presidento of the U.S.A. immediately convoked an assembly with scientists to forbid every kind of research in this field. Scientists claim that it was only a problem of * habit *, as a matter of fact, people were afraid of other revolutionary discovers also several years ago but now there are experiments every day .
Are they making a joke of us? We all know that they keep us in ignorance! Indeed, I think that what we discover is what they want to let us discover! Selfishly it would a great thing to have a reserve of perfect organs, ready in case of diseases and I admit that the discovering is incredible, expecially if you think that the process is done through the employment of electric current, but I would prefer another method, another solution to our survival, perhaps a better society!
Governments should give much more money to the medial research and should provide a better chance of life, organizing all the public services that we need as best as they can. Pehaps, we would not neeb to use solutions against nature .
