 <ICLE-PA-GF-0035.1> 
	The word censorship means "The control of speech and other forms of human expression". This word is used time and time again throughout society. Censorship may be considered in different behaviors Such as speaking, fighting, even in movies, novels and dramas also. But it occurs most in media of any society. Today censorship is not as it was in the past. Society today tolerates what used to be censored before. Most of it is acceptable now-a - days .
Censorship has followed the free expressions of men and woman like a shadow through history. In ancient societies such as those of Israel or China, censorship was considered a legitimate instrument for regulating the moral and political life of the population. For the very first time the law of censorship was in introduced in 300 AD in China, and later on in other countries. At that time censorship would have been regarded as an honourable task .
Censorship may also lead towards thoughts or ideas. The struggle for freedom of expression is as ancient as history of censorship. The playwright Euripides (480-406) BC defended the true liberty of freedom men, the right to speak freely and he added dyplomatically .
 <*> 
The painful paradox of history's. worst crimes continuing to repeat them selves can not be resolved by creating a database such as the Beacon for freedom of expression, but it will provide another tool for enlightnment and actions by people thus hope fully contributing to end the violations .
 <*> 
Media has a very prominent place in society and it has a great chance of censorship. Considering the vital importance of the written media in the process of democratisation and transparency in an any society the no less important contribution of the written word to the growth of literacy in numerous countries. This is indeed a tragic state of affairs. It is said that "those that live by the pen shall die by the sword." 
"Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression, this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas though any media and regardless of frontiers." Milton made an impassioned plea for freedom of expression and toleration of false hood stating: <*> . Sweden was the first country to abolish censorship and introduce a law guaranteeing freedom of the press in 1766. Then Norway followed suit in 1770. Today the first Amendment of the constitution of the US (1787) guaranteeing freedom of speech as well as of the press in regarded as the rot of the comprehensive protection of freedom of expression in Western countries, along with the much quoted statement by the French National Assembly in 1789. <*> 