 <ICLE-PA-GF-0025.1> 
There is a tradition in all over the world that of marriages. Two families many of their children & with each other or a boy or girl do court manage between them .
As marriage counselor, we often hear "I will be happy if only my spouse will happy".
Yet, our experiences indicates that when one spouse focuses on the other's performance, it usually leads to the destruction of the relationship .
When coming together in marriage, husbands and wives usual develop their own natural, human plans for marital happiness. The couple separate plans are based on the unique personalities and personal differences of each partner, and personal different family influences, role models, books and often different church experiences. Because their plans for marriage happiness are different, conflict usually results. Since each of us is self centered, we contently want to know what our spouse has done for us lately. Sadly, as time passes, we subconsciously revert to the " greener pasture syndrome" where we begin to compare our spouse's performance with our own preconceived ideas and expectations, making satisfaction with our spouse more and more elusive. Factors that destroy marriages .
(1) A big reason for fail the marriage is that the marriage in out of cast, the outer cast family can mot Understand the customs of other family and some narrows minded start quarrelling between them and marriage will fails . 
(2) Couples fail to anticipate differences resulting from diverse cultural backgrounds differing family experiences, gender and so on so marriage will fails .
(3) Another main reason in our society for marriage fail is arrange marriage without the will of boy or girl. Boy or girl can not understand with one another and tend blame each other and marriage will fails . 
(4) Another reason in that immaturity of marriage person. These person do not take wider star due to their immatureness and marriage will fails .
(5) We have seen a big reason of marriages fails in our society that is court marriage of marriage against that marriage or marriage against the will of their family. First of al our society is rout accepted these marriages with destroy of marriage with belatedly. This point tends to the destroy of marriages succeed as the wish of husband and wife .
 <*> 
(10) Many People lack a vital relationship with Jesus Christ. It could be that they have never come to a specific point in time when they asked Christ into their lives and therefore he has mo impact on the marriage relationship. This is mostly in non muslims family .
(11) An other big reason have seen In our society that the marriage's couple age difference. If there is age difference between couple more than 20 years then there is very rare chance to succeed these marriages .
(12) If a marriage held between a social family and unsocial family then this marriage will not be succeed due to the fashions and customs of a social family and from couple, one person will not walk with socialism so marriage will be destroy .
(13) A big reason have seen in our society that some sort of narrow minded persons mostly women do against the couple each other to tell the discussions of others. Due the fight and mother if law on family issues. Due to this many marriages are failed .
(14) Another big reason have seen mostly in sub-continent that the dowery system. Due to this system many marriages destroyed .
(15) There is big reason that the couples in doubt against each other their spouse interest in any other spouse so marriage destroyed .
How to solve these problems
According to my paint of view that often marriage family due to love marriage against the will of family or arrange marriage against the will of boy of girl. If we overcome this problem and do marriage with the will of our family, if we want to do love marriage then mostly we take assent of our parents then 95% marriage will be successful. The reason is that we think that we are mature and take decisions for our life lonely then it is totally wrong .
Another solution is that we make trust on our life partner .
Another solution is that we make understanding with our life partner and standing through each other in tough tries of life then many marriage will succeeds.