 <ICLE-PA-GF-0010.1> 
Excessiveness, minimization, immoderation or intemperance are those elements in Islam which are not liked ever. Instead of this, moderation and temperation are always liked. The excessiveness and minimization in any field of life leads to the bad results .
Leaving bad deed on aside, even in the good deeds the moderation must be overviewed. Islam is a complete religion, therefore, the living system given by Islam is also complete. Islam does not allow for the excess and minimizing in any field of life . 
When Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) declared "I ' m Prophet of God" and you (PBUH) were asked to say people about this, then the Holy Prophet (PBUH) invite them for teaching of Islam. But that time the people of Arab was so away from right path and were lost in hand made Gods . 
Hazrat Muhammad (PBUH) was know that He was on the right way who would accept it, would be succeeded and who would not accept it, that would be responsible for himself. To see his people the Holy Prophet (PBUH) becomes sad . 
When God saw him in this condition then the God said in Holy Qur'an: <*> .
When we see this verse of Holy Quran then to see the condition of people the Holy Prophet (PBUH) was also adviced not to excess in sadness. You (PBUH) is also cavil not to do so. The purpose of this book is not that the Prophet (PBUH) also become sad due to his people . 
Moderation is not bounded in this boundary. Moderation is also included in the main clauses of Islam. That is why Holy Qur'an is called "Al-mazan" and mulims are called "ummat-e-vasat". 
After saying muslims as "umaat-e-vasat" it is now clear that the moderation must be included in them. Although excessive exaggeration should be avoided and moderations are main teachings of Islam . 
It is very clear to all the muslims "Neither become so hard nor soft for urself, after you blame yourself."
It is very clear from the above verse that the excess and minimization in any field is prohibited in Islam. Islam allow us to spend where we realy need to be but if we not do so then it is not that what the Islam says i.e, moderation. Also if you have enough then donot spend it openly or freely that you are called extravagant . 
Minimization doesn't allow a person to enjoy the God gifted things and extravagance leads to a person to sorrow . 
Therefore, the moderation is also adviced in Islam. One of the other place in Qur'an it is given that <*> . Sometimes people use the exssiveness in worship but the Holy Prophet (PBUH) said to not to do so.1$	Holy Prophet (PBUH) said: <*> It is our observation of day and night that those people who leave the moderation and keep excessiveness, the moderation also leaves them and as a result they loose comfort. Moderation is must for everyone and for every work. We must avoide with the immoderation so that we may spend our life in such a way that all rights of life may be balanced . 
God doen't make Islam so hard so that the people leave it due to its strictness.