 <ICLE-PA-GF-0007.1> 
Money is our means of survival. Through money we try to materialize our necessities and desires but man's desires are unlimited whereas man's financial resources are limited. In this struggle of man for get more and more money, he indulges into barbaric acts. Man's lust for power is very strong. Man does not get money only to materialize his necessities but the status of man is measured by his earned money .
Money causes moral and spiritual decadence. Rich man thinks that religion for him is of no use rather religion is created for poor ones. The lack of spirituality hardens their hearts and they become barbaric and brutal towards poor. Money will not bring intelligence and virtue for them. The rich people control the modes of production. They can materialize their worldly desires by money. They even bribe the police and bribe the lawyers thus law and order are not for rich people but for poor ones .
There is unfair distribution of money in the world, therefore, society is divided into two groups, bourgeois and proletariat as termed by Marx. There is a continuous struggle between these two groups and both want to overpower each other. But super structure is determined by bourgeois. Personality of anyone is changed by money. People even change their societal group by money . 
Unemployment is a world wide problem. In Pakistan, unemployment has become a very grave problem. There is a large number of educated people but many of them are not provided with job opportunities. Thus people indulge into many evil acts. As there is a large number of robbers, decoits, beggars and smugglers. Smugglers cause a huge damage to the economy of a country. They smuggle the goods that are badly need in the native country and it results in a deterioration of native industry. They even do not pay taxes and cause a great loss to economy .
Poverty is the root of many social evils. Poverty is associated with economic decline and financial crises. Pakistan has to face the problem of inflation. Inflation refers to increase in the money supply and it describes a fall in the purchasing power of money. Thus the prices of things are arising day by day. The rich people are becoming more and more rich while the poor are living at very low level .
People have become materialistic and feel proud for those who are busy in their worldly business having no time to enjoy the solacing boons of nature. This too much absorption in business affairs disintegrates the family relations too. People are becoming more and more realistic and selfish. Even people do not care for man's life as there are many unqualified quacks. The quacks use hit and trial method while treating patients which causes many deaths. Like quacks there are other practitioners in the society who indulge in mal-practices such as bone setters and charmers who claimed that they have heavenly powers to cure them. In short, we can safely say that money is deriving force behind evil actions.