 <ICLE-PA-GF-0018.1> 
Prison system in history, the imprisonments for creating a safer society .
Many people are tortured in the prisons in every country 
Police behaviour is harsh and rude with prisoners. No respect of rules, justices and humanity
Different non political NGO's are active and working for the prisoner's rights . 
We need to have equality, justice and opportunities for progress available to all the people. Otherwise we cann't hope to have a society free from crimes and criminals .

There has been this belief by governments that the more imprisonment is the better for creating a safer society. There are more than 37 prisons only in Punjab. And their capacity is to have only few hundered prisoners but these prisons are over crowded due to more imprisonments. The situation is not so much different in other countries like, America, England and Australia. As the figures released by the Australian Bureau of statistics reveal that almost 60 percent of people in prisons last year had been in jail before . 
Generally, the prisons are over crowded, therefore, the prisoners quarrel with the jail staff and the other prisoners and get injuries e.g fifty prisoners were injured in a clash at central jail in Faisalabad only few months ago. The prisoners are not treatened very well and they are tortured both mentally and physically, e.g, In Guantanamo jail in America, where there is no respect of humanity, rules and justice. And at the end of this torture some prisoners die and mostly became psychological patients and these problems of mental disorder cut off them from the society. There is no proper system of food for prisoners. They are treatened harshly and rudely . 
The government's belief that the society will be safe if more people who commit crimes are imprisoned, is not right because the police are quite rude and harsh when they raid private quarters or other places for the purpose of search or arrest. They often beat up the people to much who resist them or hinder the search or arrest. Sometimes, they injure the wanted people badly or even kill them and the news later appears as "killed in police encounter". 
They arrest the youth, women and children illegally and lock up them under different rules e.g. under 302, 307, 392, 420 and 337 etc. They torture them in prisons. Respect for women and sympathy for children are also at time not shown by the police. Then after releasing from prisons, they commit crimes as a revenge and have to go to prisons once again. There are more than 6,56, 700 prisoners only in Punjab. Prison system is outdated. Prison is not something that's effectively dealing with the social problems that deal to crime or individual problems but that might lead a particular individuals to committing offences . 
Physical punishments and mental torture can not work as love, sympathy and justice can do. We should provide justice to the prisoners and try to releas them from prisons. And needless delays in justice in courts should be avoided like wildfire. New laws should be farmed to meet new situations . 
No civilized society should punish its criminals. It should rehabilitate. In this respect different non-political NGOs are active for the prisoner's rights.e.g, Ansar Burney's welfare trust in Lahore, with prisoners' legal Aid society, is working on self help basis. Therefore, the violation of human rights by the US and Britain in their treatment of Iraqi prisoners in 2004 and earlier remained in hot debate in the mass media .
The police and the governments have realized the need of the hour that society should try to rehabilitate its prisoners rather than to punish and torture them. In this regard, US President Barack Obama has promised to close the controversial prison Guantanamo and to end the torture system .
In Pakistan, the judges of different districts have asked the civil judges to provide defence council for the prisoners, who cannot hire the lawyers to plea their cases . 
We need to have equality, justice, respect and opportunities for progress available to all the people and try to rehabilitate them. Otherwise, we cann't hope to have a society free form crimes and criminals.