 <ICLE-PA-GJ-0010.1> 
Islam is the only religion that includes all sphere of human life and human activity. The concept of marriage is different in each religion. Islam is the only one religion which protects its followers in every respect of life and give guidance. In Islam when a man woman made sign a marital contract which is called nikah then its their duty to make it successful. Husband has to give money or property to his wife at the time of nikah which is called mehr. It is safety net for the woman. When some conflictions are created between the husband and wife then some times it results the situation of divorce. Divorce is the most disliked act of Allah. Today Muslims situations around the globe is bad due to high rates of divorce. There are many reasons which leads to the failure of a marriage . 
Most of the love marriages are failed than the arranged marriages. When adults are in love they do marry without their parents permission. Because they do not obey their parents and in practical life they have to face problems then many of them leave each other. At last the situation of divorce is created. Because they make their parents angry and most parents do not handle their problems. Arranged marriages are due to the descions of parents. So if some problem is created then due to mutual discussion/ meeting the problem is handeld. Today due to increasing rate of inflation and unemployment most people do not meet their basic needs. At the time of their daughter's marriage they have nothing to give them. Then due to no dowery the divorce rate increases very fastly .
Sometimes marriage breakdown is created due to the influence of people of the society who cause problems between wife and husband .
If a rich girl get married in a middle class family then sometimes she can not get adjust herself in that environment. Then due to financial problems divorce is created. Sometimes there is lack of mutual understanding and it become the cause of marriage breakdown. When a husband indulged in illegal activities r relations for the sake of his pleasure then wife feels that her husband has been taken away and does not desire for her. Then many problems between them are created . 
When a man comes back from his work He is tired and wants to see his wife looking at him, smiling, and giving him attention and care about him. If he sees her busy on phone or watching tv or she is not giving him attention in a good way. Then many problems are created among them. Some times it results divorce. Our religion has give us the solution of every problem. In Quran, Allah and His messengar commands a husband must be kind, patient and loving with his wife. Not only husband but wife also give him respect and be obedient to him always. This will make their relation more successful. They can also make their life more happier and perfect if they ignore each others mistakes. They have good communication. They share their feelings with each other. To make their relation good they should give gifts to each other. They must respect the needs for their privacy. Don't share their personal problems with others. Today careers take away one or both from family espacially from children so they must take care of their family's needs. In short a husband must keep himself away from all forbidden things, wrong physical relations and cooperate with his wife. Because when a wife knows her husband is protecting, loving and caring and very sensitive about her then she feels happy even he does not have good look. All this will make a relationship of wife and husband more strong and happy.