 <ICLE-PA-GJ-0003.1> 

In the past, sports were regarded as the outdoor recreational pastimes, such as fishing, shooting, and hunting. On the other hand, games were regarded as organized contests played by teams or individuals according to certain rules. However, the distinction between sports and games disappeared with the passage of time. Two terms are now often used interchangebly . 
Games are common to all countries and cultures. They have gaind cardinal importance in physical and recreational activities. People play games either to have fun or develop mental and physical skills. Games make people disciplined, active, agile, energetic and sharp. They contribute a lot to make men hadsome and smart. Their worth has been recognized at national and international levels. In educational institutions, they have been decleared as a part of curricular activities. Some games such as football, cricket and hockey have won enormous popularity in this era . 
The students of today want to assert themselves. They want some outlet for the presentation of their unrivalled faculties. Games and sports provide them with plenty of such opportunities. If such chances are not given to them, they may fall prey to criminal activities Thus indirectly, games contribute a lot towards making our youth decent and upright. As a result, our students undertake benficial pursuits .
Games make students disciplined. They become consistent and regulations of games. Games also promote the team-spirit in players. They develop the quality of decision making. They also learnt to obey and uphold laws. They kept themselves united. The players forget their personal tiny differences for a common cause. They learnt how to cooperate. They show an infinite patience in their doings. They never get annoyed at little provocations. They also learnt to respect others . 
There is a dark side of the picture also. Games may cause certain harms. Sometimes, the players do ignore the rules of decency for their own victory and gain. They aim to win the game by hook or by crook. They practice illegal and immoral tricks to this end. Second, too much interest in games may spoil some intelligent students. They may ignore their studies to become good athletes. In this way they become neither good students nor good athletes . 
On international level, games have become a source of illegal gambling. Not only the masses but also the players are sometimes involved in this unlawful activity. Sometimes, a few players of the team do give professional performance. In fact they want to lose the game knowingly to gain some personal gains .
At student level there is one benefit of the sports and games. It keeps the students physically fit and bodily smart and active. The students who remain busy in playing any types of games and sports are more fit and healthy as compared to those who are not playing any game. It is also better than computer and video games which is only wastage of eyes and times. It also make students more manly. They learn the spirit of sportsmanship and they learn team work and team spirit. In this way they learn more about the life. They learn how to accept the loss of game and learn how to celebrate the win and victory of game. In this way it is helpful to the students.