 <ICLE-PA-GJ-0001.1> 
Today if we consider that what's going on we will see that it is only because of money. The people became very greedy that they don't know. What's the aim of life. They only think that money is the only thing with which we are living in this world .
If we don't have money. We all be nothing, but they don't know that it's a very cheap thinking. As we are muslims and it is our belief that Allah is one and he is one who help us, who can show us right path. Without him we are nothing, we can't survive in this world then how we can say that money is every thing? 
If we think that money has power, and is everything then why we believe Allah? Many poor and needy people who are helpless and have nothing to do thought that if we have money then in the world where we would lie . 
Only money is not every thing for everyone some other relations are more important but now, because of money all relations are broken. Even a brother is fighting with brother because of money people have forgotten all their relations .

If one relative has a world bank he become too much proud of it, that he don't think about his other brothers, he only said that if i am the rich, I have a lot of money, then what is the need of meeting my brothers and relative. I have every thing, but this is a very wrong concept. He looked down him but no .

Because of money people have been choosen wrong paths. Because of money they start smuggling, import and export of heroein, and other smoking material, through sea, road etc. In this way they get too much money and become richer and richer . 
They are happy on this that they are rich they don't think that what they are doing and how money is coming .
They don't think about the saying of Holy Prophet S.A.W. <*> .
Hazrat Umer (R.A) said that he was not allowed to boast or show off his wealth because it was disliked by Hazrat Muhamnad . (S.A.W)
Today in the world money is the great issue, because of this people start storing goods, like sugar, wheat and other grains, they thought that when they become expensive then we sell them in the market . 
They don't know that it is only because of their bad thinking, the things become too much expensive. Even the poor people become unable to buy it .
People don't think that money is not everything. We have to live in this world, not money can give us all relations .
It only depends upon the thinking of people. Can they share secrets or feelings with money. No it is not possible, but people can't consider it and leave their all relations. Relations are true but money is only and only greediness and need .
It's true that the money is necessary equipment to fulfill our needs and wishes, but we don't become too much greedy that our wishes become vast and vast . 
And to fulfill our wishes and we have not too much money to fulfill that wishes, we start evil deeds and forget right path .
If we save money and not exploit them in wrong ways then we can use that saved money in many right purposes .
As Hazrat Mohammad (S.A.W) was against the bribery so he said that