 <ICLE-PA-LW-0003.1> 
Europe the rular of the world has the greatest power in every aspect of life-it can be social, economic, scientific, industrial progress and even in litrary work. It is 3rd largest land continent, having 27 countries. All twenty seven countries organised themselves to gain more and more industrial progress and military power. This organisation is called European union, having same currency and Foreign policy. These all countries are nitting togather to make themselves dominent to all the world. These countries with the population of 792. 803 million (according to 2002 report) have great social attitude. These societies are called civilised sociaties because they have make themselves socialy educated and civillized. It is said that Europian sociaties have all the values and manners of life which the muslims inspite of their Holy Book have forget. They give the rights to everyone to live his life by his own will. The law of these countries is strong and same for everyone both rich and poor. The government takes keen interest in the welfare of his kingdom. If we compare these societies with muslims sociaties, we will know that muslim sociaties have religion Islam but they don't apply it in their lives but Europian 
sociaties are more aware about the welfare of people. Every person wants to give pleasure and benefit to other person. They themselves take care of cleanliness without any restriction. They pay governmental allounce honestly. Europian countries are the heart of world trade. Europe is the place where industrial revolution took place in Victorian era. Europe first of all put the attention to the industry. Now in present time these are the super powers just because of their focus on industry. Industry which is the backbone of worldly progress is in the hand of Europe. Europe is the mother of colonial powers like Britain and France . 
Europe sets the rules of government. Hundred years before there was kingship in which government moves between a family. But it is Europe that firstly established democracy. It not only established it but also made their country ideal democratic state . 
Europian countries are big military powers like Germany, France, Britain. All these have nuclear powers. Europe has a military alliance with Turkey and USA. called NATO (north atlantic treaty organisation). The two great world wars (1914-1918) and (1939-1945) were initiated by internal affairs of European countries killing nearly 4 cror population of the world . 
Europe is the home of many great people. It has growned the top class world leaders like Sir Winiston, S. Churchil, Hitler, Missuloni, Karl Marx. All these have deep influence on the civilisation of modern era, with teaching and theories. Europe has great writer like Shakespear Wordsworth and many more. Vascoday Gama who discovered America and Marcopolo a great tourist belonged to Europe . 
Europain countries like Britain ruled over other countries also. As Britain ruled over hundred years on sub-continent India. They ruled over muslims and Hindus. Though after 14 August they went back but still they have powerful influence on us. We are still under them because we are not economically independant country. Europe alway interfares in the inner problems of countries which are not economically established. It also creates problems for them outwardly. Though in Europe all the religion like Islam, Hinduisim and Christianity is present but Christians are are the main religious people for them .
Europe is not rich like Pakistan in its season. There is only one season cold and foggy. That is why its agriculture is not good .
These are some main things of Europe. But the landmark of it is the progress of European countries. This progress, power, knowledge, is the product of their effort, hardwork and of their love for knowledge. They explore the world, they investigate the nature about which the Holy Quran says that there are great points for wise people. Europe is paradise for its people but they tried to make it. They established their law. They developed social behavior which are usefull for everyone. We should learn good things from them.