 <ICLE-PA-LW-0012.1> 

A leader is the most important personality of the society .
The first quality of an ideal leader is that he should be steady in his life. He should not lose temper at any problem, because he is represeter of his country and he should try to described his country in good and positive ways. He should he careful at every step. Because he had a great burden for the society .
He should work to learn more and more. The leader who is not constant in his quest cannot be successful. If he should not constant in his work he should face failure . 
The ideal leader should be a man of character. He should have the knowledge of good manners. He should be honest in his dealings. He should be kind to others. He should have the sence of every good talk. A leader is not only a man he also have a great responsibility to move the country in good ways. If his society has no good progress then it is not a good response for him, because it is the reason of something is less in his government. The ideal leader should be hard working. He should not lose heart in difficulties. He should be firm in his aims. This quality of a leader should be prove a positive change for his society .
The ideal leader should be humble. He should not be proud of his position. Because it is not for his personal benefits although this position is for the betterness of his society ' people .
The leader should be kind for his people. Due to kind behaviour his people should be frank with him and they could easily speak their problems in front of him. And when the people of the society can easily speak their problems to his leader. The society should be progressed at every step .
The ideal leader must enjoy good health. He should not be only busy in his work. He should take part in physical activities as well. He should tak part in all good activities . 
A. leader is not only a leader he is also a common man. He should also proves himself to be a good citizen. This is a positive and good point of his life. He proves himself a true patriot. He should love his country, culture, and traditions. A person who don't follow and respect his culture and tradition could not walk and could not govern a society . 
The ideal leader should show discipline in every matter of life. Because a disciple is always perfect in every way. Discipline taught a man good points and also taught how to live a perfect life.1$	He should lead a planned life. He should not be careless in his doings. He must be blanced in his attitude .
A leader is a role model of his nation. So he must be an ideal person. Only a few leaders are ideal leaders like Mr. Jinnah is a great leader. Or Mr. Iqbal was a great leader. Or Nelson Mendela is a great leader. There are few people who live in the history pages.