 <ICLE-PA-LW-0002.1> 

I selected The Topic: "Most university degrees are Theoretical and do not prepare for the real world, They are therefore of very little value". 
I selected this topic due to great implementation in the modern age in countries like pakistan. Approximately, new universities which are developed about two or three years ago, give theoretical degrees to their students. But on the other hand, many or we can say almost all universities also give theoretical degrees to their students due to less experienced faculty members, having no well equiped leborteries, only few numbers of research centers, and many more. And when that students come into their practical 
life in their respective fields of study, they are nothing .
Specially, the departments of science and technology, computer feilds, medical feild, engineering feild suffer their students into theoratical degrees. Now the question is what are theoratical degrees? 
The universities especially, low level private universities and colleges not sincere about their student future. They do not see the value of degree as it need and do'nt give concentration about the value of degree at the international level. They do'nt tell their students about the value of that degree and about their practical life in the market after completing their education or degree. They do'nt tell that how you implement in the 
society after completing their degree. A student think if some'one ask me "what are oppertunities for you after completing their degree? Or "what is your practical field after completing your education?" Or "what about your future?" Then what should I say?
A student hesitate to tell someone that what will his future because he doe'snt know "how am i express my practical life at the face of someone"? Because his teachers and his institution do'nt tell him about the implementation of his feild in the practical life. When a student complete his degree or education and enters in his practical life, he feel much more depression when he fails to find his job or opportunity to implement his experience. Then he feel he is nothing in experience. And if a student successfully enters in his practical feild then he feel much more difficulty and hurdels and feel much more 
burden on him. Because his institution or teachers did'nt prepare him for his practical life. And this is a major cause of unemployment in any country when his young generation fail to find his jobs . 
For example. A pharmacist who works hard and invest a large amount on his degree and complete his specilized five years. And when he see his future as a medical representor or marketing and in a pharmacutical industry at the pay of 10000 to 15000, he worried and feel depression. The two factors are produce. These causing effects. One his institution and his teachers do'nt tell them about his future and second his country which do'nt facilitate him according his feild and work harding . 
"How to improve it". Any professional institute should fully prepare about their practical life, the teachers should tell about his future and about his practical life. The country should provide wide research facilities to the professional students. The teachers should kindly sympathetic and serious about students future so That The young generation prepare theirself for the depelopment of their country . "Nothing used except my mind".