 <ICLE-PO-UCS-0004.1> 
The average age of people who decide to marry is constantly lowering. There are many reasons for that, the most frequent is the desire to demonstrate maturity. The situation does not look optimistic as young persons are very often unprepared to set up a family .
Marriage means resorting to compromises which young persons often find difficult to accept. The wisdom comes later with age and experience. On the other hand some people claim that younger persons are more likely to adapt to new situations, changes and give up certain habits for the sake of a mutual agreement .
Young people quite frequently misinterpret mere physical attraction as true love and that is why going out with the first girl - or boy - friend often ends in the wedding. Too little knowledge about the partner usually results in conflicts in marriages .
The considerable number of marriages is contracted because of unwanted pregnancies. Such a short-sightedness and lack of responsibility usually makes a young person abandon the hopes of any life career .
The situation differs, however, if a couple decided to bring up children first and to come into effect their long dreamt of careers later on. Also, scientists have found out that various deformities occur more often to babies born by older mothers, so younger couples have bigger chances of giving birth to healthy offspring .
The decision to marry young often results from following the patterns observed in an adolescent's family: a young man is then convicted that it is better to marry very early. Sometimes families exert pressure on a young person to marry. Also, if some of the young man's friends have already been married, he or she hastens the decision, in order not to feel worse. In such a situation a young person does not usually think of all the possible consequences of the decision. This presages an unsuccessful relationship .
The biggest problems newly married couples face are usually financial ones. They feel lucky having steady jobs and when they can afford renting a flat. Although the majority of young couples prefer to live in their own houses, sharing a flat with parents is sometimes inevitable. That may be a source of family quarrels, as especially mothers-in-law are apt to interfere with all arrangements or, what is worse, impose their way of life on young spouses. But if parents are well-disposed, they may give good advice and help to solve problems .
The decision to marry should be well thought over and all aspects of future life must be taken into consideration. In extreme situations if there is no possibility of saving a marriage a divorce is the only solution but it is usually not easy as the children's lot and costs of splitting are concerned. It is better to think twice before saying ' yes'.
