 <ICLE-PO-SUS-0005.1> 
Nowadays most people consider work as something they could not live without, something that makes them men of worth. There are, however, some dark sides of this phenomena from which I shall begin .
The last two decades brought about a considerable change of attitude towards work.. It is clearly visible in the present day business world, demanding, full of stress. Here, for example, it is a jungle in which the weakest go to the wall. Only the strongest withstand this tough competition. Their motto is to be at the top of career no matter what it takes. As a result of such thinking, they began working over fourteen hours a day and after some time they can become workaholics. Such people spend most of their lives working, finding it impossible to relax and rest, no matter how tired and overworked they are. They spend their weekends in the office (their native element) or at least take home some urgent work to do. Their social life is ruined. Their spouses and friends abandoned them long time ago and they have no time, or even will to make new acquaintances. Apart from workaholics, there are many people who work also over fourteen hours a day, but the purpose of their work is purely financial. Often, they are the only ones who can support the family. Such people are always tired, they have no time to talk to their children about their little school problems, or to the husband or wife, not mentioning that they do not have any time for themselves. They begin to feel alienated from the surrounding and sometimes start to be treated as errand boys .
Work, however cannot be treated as a curse only. It has some good sides. First of all, thanks to work, people make both ends meet. They can satisfy their ambitions and become independent, cherishing every moment of the work. They are aware what effects it may bring. Above all, people live to learn. By their hard work they learn how to be responsible, how to appreciate others' work and finally, how to live a good life .
Work can be considered both a blessing and a curse. On one hand it can make people behave in a way that doctors interpret as pathological and name workaholism, on the other hand, however, it has plenty of advantages. Working and learning at the same time we, human beings grow up to become worthy people who can not only earn a livelihood but also find a proper place in the society and learn how to be positive and optimistic. With these, our life will be much more easier in today's busy world .
