 <ICLE-PO-SUS-0001.1> 
The penal code dating from the 6th century BC and invented by Hammurabi consisted of many laws concerned with crime and punishment. According to that great king, whose policies I firmly approve of, people who committed certain crimes should be punished by imposing on them the penalty equal in quality to the criminal offences those people were charged with. In other words, if someone took out someone else's eye he/she should become the victim of the same cruelty .
The times have changed since then and the range of crimes has definitely extended but the methods of dealing with the offenders have become less severe. The most typical punishment for most of the offences is the prison sentence. However, seeing the growing number of crimes this does not seem to be very effective. That is why I'm for the death penalty to be introduced or even against abolishing this kind of punishment wherever it already exists .
In my opinion if somebody is able to kill, to murder, to rape and is found notorious for committing such crimes we should not analyse his deeds from the legal point of view and wonder whether we can legally kill him or not. Although some people think this is not human to kill murderers in this way my view on that very matter is totally different. Why shouldn't we have the right to impose the death sentence on a person who murders innocent people with cold blood consequently depriving others of their beloved parents, wives, husbands or children? Why should we have mercy on people who unscrupulously rape and they ferociously torment their victims until they finally die? I would say that it would be more inhuman to let those monsters live and walk freely on the earth they contaminated with their infamous actions .
Besides, the capital punishment really helps to decrease the number of violent crimes. If we have a look at the data coming from America and going back to the 80s when the death penalty was reintroduced we can easily notice that during only two years the crime rate dropped by one fifth. This means that the danger of being executed frightened the criminals and made them realize that continuing the same "profession" is not a trifling matter .
Another thing which would support the idea of imposing the death penalty on criminals is the situation in prisons. As we all know, the prisons are overcrowded nowadays and the money being spent on them comes from nowhere else but the taxes paid by people. Besides, the prison system is constructed in such a way that very often it lets many prisoners out before their sentence is finished - because they, for example, behaved well. Consequently, the vision of being sent to prison creates no fear in the criminals and allows them to commit the same offences over and over again .
