 <ICLE-PO-SUS-0008.1> 
Advertising became a kind of a business at the beginning of the 20th century, mainly in the United States. Henry Ford produced his first Model T, women started to use lipsticks and smoke cigarettes, there were more and more goods which had to find the customers to buy them. Advertising gave work to many people: models, photographers, copy writers, etc. It also helped newspapers and magazines to survive the competition on the press market .
Nowadays it is hard to imagine our world without advertisements. We are exposed to many kinds of them almost everywhere: on TV, on the radio, in all kinds of newspapers, on our streets, on buses and trains... We are bombarded with words, songs, "poems", pictures praising all kinds of goods and trying to convince us that we need these goods very much and without them our life will lose all the sense. And we often believe the producers that their products are the best as they do not save money on advertisements .
There are people who love watching advertisements on TV. They consider them as short film-stories full of good action, good music and good actors. They believe that when they buy the advertised cream they will become as beautiful and attractive as the models. Such viewers consider the advertisements as a piece of art .
There are still others who in turn consider them as a trash, which only draw our attention from the more important aspects of life. They say that advertisements try to persuade us to buy a given product, as well as they decide what the healthy way of life is like, what coffee you will drink from now on, what the up-to-date housewife needs for her kitchen and bathroom, what cosmetics every handsome man uses, and what toys your children dream of. Good films or programmes on TV are constantly interrupted by the ubiquitous advertisements, so it is hard to concentrate on the action and problems shown in a film. What is more, there are the same products being advertised over and over again and this fact can become very irritating for the viewers .
There are good and bad advertisements and this depends on the product, on money spent on the advertising and on the people who work on it. It is generally assumed that all the films about the washing powders, sanitary pads, and washing-up liquids are of poor value. But there are a few (or rather few) very good advertisements which are a piece of art, mainly those concerning high quality perfumes. There is good music, chiefly classical one, which accompanies the picture, interesting surrounding, and the film itself creates beautiful scenes .
True art does not intrude itself upon us. We are free to decide whether to listen to some kind of music, to look at a given picture, to admire some piece of a sculpture, or not. True art does not tell us: "Look, I am the best and the most beautiful piece of art. Buy me, taste me, listen to me". True art lives forever. Advertisements act quite opposite: they are noisy, showy, officious. They will not be art as long as they are produced mechanically and they concern the trivial things of everyday use .
