 <ICLE-PO-SUS-0009.1> 
Art is the only one invention created by mankind used to make human life prettier and nicer. Art has always been a kind of human caprice dependent on a creator's mood and sensitivity, part of spiritual life and production of boundless human imagination. Man has never tried to make art as something needed in everyday life, its only aim was to express a creator's visions, ideas and show people a complex world of human inside .
As a product of imagination created in human mind art should not have influence on people's life because of its unmaterialistic values. I think it has a marvellous effect on our imagination and sense of taste, which is connected with everyday life. Art can be a powerful force, although it does not work directly. Throughout the long centuries, art has become one of the goods which people value and want to have in their houses, not because of precious materials, but because of the fruits of human genius. However, art has been always present as a silent guard of a good taste or a trashy product for the general public .
Now in the decline of the twentieth century we can ask the following question, do we still need art in our life, and what is art nowadays? There is the endless question if we can create something really new which will be needed only to make life more aesthetic and more beautiful. Some people would probably say that modern inventions of our age can be art as well .
Today's generation does not really bother about the artistic part of its life. It is not like a hundreds years ago when people delighted in art going to the museums, theatres, or galleries, at present time our life is extremely dynamic, so on the one hand people have no time for admiring art and on the other, they are simply lazy, especially young people. They are rather fascinated by the latest inventions of science and technology. The mobile phones, computers, fantastic cars, TV sets have dominated our life and what is more, they have become its inseparable elements. We can observe that more and more people try to outvie each other buying the superb equipment, for many of them it does not matter what kind of person they are but what is their financial position and social status. They do not care about their intellectual or artistic development at all. Instead of going to the museum, opera or to the cinema they prefer staying at home and watching everything without any reasonable selection or thinking. For them the beautiful paintings of Monet, Van Googh or Matejko are completely unknown things .
Generally speaking art, which is music, literature, sculpture, ballet is something strange, old-fashioned and useless for the man who lives in the twentieth century, in the age of colourful advertisement, loud music and commerce .
