 <ICLE-SW-LND-0005.1> 
In our time everything has to do with money, efficiency and prestige. Everyone strives to find himself a place in society, to get an education and make lots of money, for example as an engineer. An engineer who spends his whole life trying to figure out new ways to produce new meaningless, mass-produced products that people don't need, but buy anyway because they are brainwashed to believe that a new color-TV will make their lives happier and better .
When the next generation comes there are new scientists and new products. This new generation will think that they are the smartest and most important that ever lived on the planet, and after them a new generation will come, convinced that they understand everything etc. There is no interest in spiritual values and harmony with nature anymore, only technological development .
That is how I find the present situation in the world, and we accept it because we are afraid and programmed to believe that this is the right way to live. We have so much respect for the sciences and for those in power that we no longer dream and use our fantasy. It is as if people completely have lost their faith in themselves and given up because they think that life is so complex it can only be understood by scientists who are the only ones supposed to have all the answers and entitled to point out the direction of our lives .
I resent this common feeling of inferiority and want people to have some self-reliance and pride. We must stop being afraid and suppressed, stop viewing time as linear and stop forgetting our history, our connections to nature and older generations. Look for your imagination (a very much neglected part of the human mind). Try to find new ways to enjoy life. Nobody in this world has the right to take away another person's dreams and visions. The mechanic's and the farmer's dreams are just as valuable as those of the doctor and the lawyer .
It is very important people don't lose the incentive in their lives. They must realize that nobody else can or is allowed to live their lives. We must look into ourselves and forget all the boring scientific theories which have taken hold of our sense of reality, quelling all the good things in life .
I say: Bring out your imagination. Don't be afraid to be different. Do whatever feels good to you, ignore the manipulated majority who just strive to gain material success and prestige. Eventually they just might begin to follow suit and reconsider .
