 <ICLE-SW-LND-0002.1> 
For the ICLE project I have chosen to write about the problems a nation faces in this day and troublesome age when the number of immigrants is steadily increasing. This essay will show some of the significant aspects when it comes to choosing among potential avenues when handling questions of adaptation for immigrants. To integrate or assimilate is the question .
To say that immigration is not an uncomplicated affair is a clear understatement. It demands plenty of all parties involved, to say the least. Mainly, there are two interest groups to consider, the citizens and the immigrants, and the rights and obligations of these two groups have to be taken seriously .
For a policy to be feasible the government, which implemented the policy, has to spend some time and effort on informing the people involved. But for a policy to be successful, working on a group of people, the immigrants, with such a varied set of characteritics, different nationalities, different culture, different religious beliefs just to mention a few, but also highly important factors to be taken into account, this seems to be logically impossible to carry out. And to satisfy the other group of citizens, the government's policy has to consider all of their rights and needs and combine these factors with the strenuous task of combining that with the aid to help the immigrants to adjust .
All the differences of the immigrants, societal aspects, dito family structure and their beliefs on child rearing and education will have an impact on how well they adjust. The reason for immigration must not be left aside either, when trying to understand the adjustment process, which is vital to provide the best kind of aid. A family which felt it was forced to leave their home-country, for example of financial reasons, might not have an easy period of settling in and getting used to a new culture, while a family leaving the home-country in a positive spirit with hopes of a new and fresh start stands a better chance of feeling at home much sooner .
For an immigrant family to prosper in a new and more or less unknown culture they must be provided with certain services. The most important would be that the new country had a well-functioning government with a working immigration policy; that way they wouldn't have to face as much hostility and xenophobia from the people in it, but this sounds sadly enough as a utopia, so to be realistic, provide opportunity for the immigrants to practise their way-of-living and their religion and inform them of our ways and the laws of this country so that there can be a balance and harmony despite the differences. Tolerance is a key word, from all sides .
One of these provisions ought to be, if not the most important then one of them, the right to get education, in full or in part in your own mother-tongue. This is vital in giving children a sense of identity, they might be the generation of a new nationality for the family but what kind of citizens will they be if they have a poor lack of identity and a weak knowledge of their background and heritage .
