 <ICLE-SW-LND-0001.1> 
It is difficult to imagine this world of ours unimaginative and dreamless. In fact I would think it to be quite impossible to excist in this techologycal world without any kind of dream or imagination. I would say that it takes a lot of it to even live in it .
But the question is, do we have the time to dream, is there any place for it in our lives? Well, to find this out we must compare our modern world with the times before it turned into what it is today, industrial and technologycal .
In the earlier days people did not have all the stress on the assembly line like we have today. I guess that that gave them more time to think and dream. They lead a more simple life with out any interference from the world outside their own and I am quite sure that this is affecting our dreams .
Our dreams may have changed, our wishes is sometimes quite different from the earlier days, but I guess that we still have some dreams in common. We still dream about true love, fortunes and eternal life. These wishes are not fulfilled more frequently today than they were berore. But some of the dreams and the wishes we have today are fulfilled thanks to our modern technology and I think that we should be thankful for that. For there is no point in dreaming if you can not get one single dream realized in your whole life .
Modern technology has damaged our childrens ability to imagine things. They are incapable of playing with things like LEGO and bricks and other toys that demands a bit of imagination. Today toys has to be developed in detail. Everything has to be formed in plastic with strict playing rules and instructions on how you should play leaving no room for you own imagination. With commercials and advertisements you are told what is inn and cool to play with. Disney figures casted in plastic, Barbie and her friend Kent, Ninja Turtles, Batman and heaven knows what!
Children can not be blamed for their lack of imagination. They can not help all this garbage is being thrown upon them. Business men in the industries should be blamed for it. They are the ones who are making big profits selling interior decorations for Barbie one year and miniature Batmobiles the next .
Men and women dream about different things. Men are dreaming about their careers, money and red sports cars! Maybe I'm being a bit prejudiced and not very deep. But I have not yet meet a man who would not like to change his car to a newer and faster one!
Women they still dream about children and homes. Again I am taking the risk of being accused of being prejudicedand I would therefor like to point out that women have approached a few male dreams. Like the dream of a great career and being independent .
We all dream about the future and try to imagine what it might bring us. Dreaming is hoping and hoping means faith in life, so if we stop dreaming we will stop living .
