 <ICLE-SW-LND-0004.1> 
Few of Orwell's predictions in his famous book 1984, as well as other more or less frightening future prognostics, have been fulfilled. After the fall of communism, with despots and other destructive powers kept in check - if not totally - many people feel at ease and allow themselves to be more optimistic about future .
It is supposed that the often seemingly negative attitude of most of the news media to technical development, and the perpetual reportings on environmental destruction, shortage of resources, war, terrorism etc., should make us disillusioned and apathetic about life. The fact that news like that appeal to many people does not give any proof of growing indifference or apathy about the ongoing scientifical evolution on (or destruction of) our planet. And we should not forget that technical science can constitute a powerful instrument in the fight against poverty, diseases and environmental problems. Wouldn't that stimulate our imagination and creative ability?
The development of an idea into an invention and a technical device often takes place under adverse and discouraging circumstances. Edison's idea about making an electric bulb was ridiculed rather than encouraged by his contemporaries. History has shown that great achievements have often taken place during periods of hardship and difficulties. Problems and needs should be treated as a challenge or opportunity to start some meaningful work in order to find the solutions to them. We need optimistic dreamers who put ideas into action and treat problems as possibilities. If you listen to doomsday prophecies about death and destruction and pay heed to their sayings you'll probably end up without any dreams left. Such forecasts have seldom been fulfilled and should not be allowed to rob us of our creative facilities .
You have probably heard people say that there is no more to investigate on our earth, no unknown wilderness to explore or tribes to be discovered, so we have to get into the space or plunge into the bottom of the vast oceans to make new discoveries. Some people are frightened by modern technology, not only destructive weapons, but even computers which are often believed to be a threat to personal integrity. The truth is, however, if you get acquainted with computers you usually get fascinated as well .
In our fast changing society we have to change our dreams and make them up to date, so to speak, - escapism and nostalgia only create frustration and disappointment - and embrace technology with its fast development in order to be "positive dreamers". Patent agencies all over the world can give evidence of an ever increasing stream of inventions. Man was born curious and made to be a conqueror .
Technological development in general, such as electronics, computer technology, bio-tech, medical science etc. seldom appeals to the imagination of most people. But the fact remains that tomorrow's generation is a lot more fascinated by the accelerating development of technology, frequently taken advantage of by filmmakers. A great number of American cartoons, mainly aimed at children, have aroused the imagination of many people with its "winged cars" (stylish sports cars with in-built wings which make them flyable when pushed aside) as well as other enticing vehicles and gadgets. Dreams like that will undoubtedly affect the future of many children. Any why shouldn't some of them come into existence?
A few years ago some Russians claimed to have constructed easy-to-use flying skis equipped with a small engine and a fast-turning metal blade like on a helicopter. The future will show if there will be any flying skis or winged cars or what dreams will be materialized .
Science technology and industrialization are often, as we have seen, the stimuli and the means to the fulfillment of many of our dreams and imaginations. There are logical reasons which indicate that this will be so in the future too .
