 <ICLE-SW-UV-0004.3> 
How can one say that feminists, who fight for the rights of women and against all kinds of discrimination against women, have any harm at all to women?
If it weren't for feminists, women would probably still not have the right to vote or to decide over their own bodies, to mention only these two issues. Today we find it ridiculous that women, half the population, should not be allowed to vote. And what about their own bodies? Well, not too long ago, during the 70s I think, a woman could still be raped by her husband and that was not a crime, in Sweden .
In my opinion, we still have some way to go regarding the freedom of women. It makes me furious when I hear how young girls and women are insulted and mistreated because of their sex, their looks, their way to behave and dress . "She was asking for it." - words to explain why a young man has harassed a young woman. Can it ever be OK to hurt somebody? That day will come when women will be able to walk home at night without fear of being molested. However, things don't change by themselves. You have to point out where the problems are to those who can't see them. That is why we still need feminists to do that .
It's definitely my opinion that equality between men and women, when it comes to the same possibilities for both sexes to make choices in life, has not been reached yet. More important is that we must not take for granted the gains in "equality up to this date. Human rights and democracy must be fought for. The debate must continue. The awareness must be transmitted from generation to generation .
An example to illustrate: A couple, a man and a woman, with small children. Both parents want to work on their careers. Who is likely to stay home with the small children? Do they actually have the same possibility to choose as we think they do?
Let's say both parents are offered fantastic jobs. Who will take the responsibility for the children?
Nowadays it's unfortunately not only the echo from our parents' generation which speaks of the natural thing about being a woman, which says that it's natural for a woman to take care of the children. This has been the tradition and female role for generations. This means that being a woman implies following convention and tradition, to stay Woman. Then, if you don't take care of the children, you choose your career instead, you are not a woman, in that sense .
I couldn't disagree more. We need feminists, men and women, to keep this debate alive, to keep a look-out for when the winds are changing, because in the end, this is a matter of human rights and discrimination. We all need to be awakened now and then .
