 <ICLE-SW-UV-0003.3> 
When we look at the news on television we see a great many poor, sick and starving people in developing countries. Their misery makes us very uncomfortable because we are reminded of our own affluence. These dying people have the same right to satisfy their hunger as people in rich countries have. Why are there so many inequalities in the world and what can we do to improve circumstances in developing countries? The core concept of Communism is that everybody on earth should have equal rights in life and that the difference between the poor and the rich must be leveled out. Is Communism the solution of these problems?
When people hear the word Communism terrible pictures of violence and deceitfulness conjure up in their minds. Lenin once said that if it was necessary Communists in the Soviet Union would exterminate 90 % of the population to get their ideals through. Consequently 20 million people were killed in the Soviet Union when Lenin and Stalin were in authority. In addition Communist leaders in dictatorships like China usually are very eloquent when they brainwash their citizens with their propaganda. They often tell them about all the improvements they mean they have achieved. There are no limits to their lies. Accordingly they claim that people in their countries are extremely happy and in excellent health. Simultaneously disabled children tied on to chairs are starving to death in orphanages. Communism has proved to be an impossibility. Inequalities in Communist countries were not leveled out. The Communists became the rich people in those countries. Moreover the people were/are oppressed and lacked/lack freedom. Nobody is happy in a dictatorship where violence and hypocrisy reigns. Why is Communism an impossibility? The answer is that most people on earth are too selfish. Albert Schweizer was a Christian doctor who lived in povery in a hut in Africa's wilderness and cured poor people without charging them. If everybody would be as unselfish as Albert Schweizer was there would be neither famine nor oppression in the world. Since most people are selfish Communism is an impossibility. The most unselfish people on earth predict non-violent behavior .
Unfortunately there are a great many examples of people's selfishness and cold-bloodedness in the world. The managers of the multinational company Nestle ' are good examples of extremely selfish people who have no conscience about how they make their profit .
Thus they were responsible for an advertising campaign in Asian developing countries for their infant formula that gave a totally wrong impression, because it convinced parents that their children would be healthier if they exchanged breast-feeding for infant formula. Moreover, hospital staff were bribed by Nestle'and told the parents how extremely nutritious infant formula is. Furthermore most of the parents were illiterate and could not read the directions. Consequently they did not understand that they had to sterilize the feeding bottles and boil the water, but they mixed the infant formula with water filled with bacteria. A great many children died from diseases. A great many of those children would not have died if they had been breastfed instead. It is difficult to understand how the people responsible for this could be so cruel. Obviously they were so obsessed by the idea of being rich that nothing could stop them. They did not even care if they indirectly killed a great many infants .
Trade secrets often contain a great deal of dishonesty. Thus cunning businessmen often twist and turn the truth to make as large profits as possible. In the fifties manufacturers of vacuum cleaners did their very best to make lasting products and they succeeded in doing this. For this reason vacuum cleaners manufactured in those days were durable and worked for decades. Unfortunately this is not the case nowadays. Manufacturers consciously make vacuum cleaners less hard-wearing than they are able to, because if people have to buy new ones every seven years or so they make larger profits. However their advertising boasts that their products are of the best quality .
To make a profit on religion is really unsavoury. The concept of all humane religions is unselfishness. Buddha and Jesus did not cheat people out of money so they could be rich. On the contrary they both lived in poverty and modesty, and the only thing that mattered to them was to influence other people to be tolerant, forgiving and altruistic. Nowadays there are many examples of phoney religious leaders who beguile their adherents out of money. Bagwhan Shree Rajnesh bought a great many luxury cars for the money his followers gave him. The founder of Scientology bought a luxury yacht among other things for the money that his supporters have been deceived into giving the Church of Scientology. The brainwashed members of the Moon Church have no spare time at all because they sell pictures and flowers all day long, and all the money goes to the Church. Moreover, they are not allowed to see their relatives. In addition the members have been brainwashed to think that if somebody is questioning the way in which their church treats them this person must be influenced by evil spirits or by the Devil. Brainwash usually works in that way. A great many of these phoney religious leaders have probably deceived themselves and they really believe that they are chosen by God to influence other people .
The root of all evil is selfishness. Thus when a human being thinks that he/she is superior to other people he/she thinks that his/her superiority entails a great many advantages .
Consequently a person like this thinks that inferior people must work very hard for him/her and not earn so much money. Moreover he/she claims that these inferior people ought to be grateful that he/she condescends to give these people employment. Colonialism was a very good example of how rich people from rich countries took advantage of poor people in developing countries and argued in the way mentioned above. Colonizers were often very eloquent when they claimed that they saved native peoples from pagan religions and customs. Selfish people often put their empty words in nice ways .
Notes are only pieces of paper and they can do no harm. Give ten million dollars to an unselfish person that reminds of Mother Theresa, and you will see how she/he will neither buy a great many smart clothes for herself/himself nor will she/he live in a posh house. On the contrary she/he will continue to live in modesty and poverty and spend all the money on altruistic deeds. Unfortunately there are so few people like Mother Theresa. Most of us are rather selfish and if we are frank we have to confess that we can not compare ourselves with Mother Theresa when unselfishness is considered .
