 <ICLE-FIN-HELS-0011.1> 
Unions have been a European tradition of preparing for confrontations. The origins of the European Union lay in the after-war threat of a communist takeover, and even today its motivation is rivalry with other major political forces such as the United States, Russia and Eastern Asia. Countries like Great Britain, Germany and France want to maintain their historical status as superpowers at great military costs when the money would be badly needed to alleviate regional inequalities. Minor members of the EU will have to take part in campaigns against their will, as was recently seen in the Gulf War. In addition to the external conflicts, the loss of independence may give birth to separatist movements with terroristic courses of action, and, eventually, civil war .
In the European Union political decisions are made far away from the areas they will affect, and, thus, local circumstances are not known properly. Moreover, bureaucracy slows down the identification of subjects for new legislation. The politicians in Brussels may identify themselves with the prestigious capital with few thoughts for problems back home. Issues like pollution may not be taken seriously as the emphasis is on free markets, and borders are open not only for merchants but also for organized crime .
In the introduction of a common currency European countries put all their eggs in one basket. This is quite dangerous as European competitiveness is not especially good. Scientific research, the key to economic growth, lags behind as many of the brightest minds leave for America. The products of certain members of the EU are of low quality while the members with skillful workers have lost their strong traditions in merchandise. Financial distress will be exacerbated by the inadequate social security of the EU.
It has been claimed that the members of the EU have a commmon heritage, but, in fact, only neighbouring countries have much to do with each other, and their relations are often problematic because of a hostile past. Many young people dream of working abroad, but this may be difficult to make true in this age of unemployment, and the locals often have a negative attitude towards foreigners. Anyway, real internalization is hindered by the preference of EU workforce over outsiders. Inter-rail has been a terrific way for youngsters from different countries to get to know each other, but many European governements want to abandon this system. It seems that the EU serves only the interests of the business world and not the development of ordinary people .
The European Union will not help its peoples to endure tomorrow's hardships. The necessary push can only be given by the national spirit, which encouraged European peoples to discover their own identity after centuries of imperial and religious oppression. Global questions are best handled with the flexible co-operation of separate governements. It is only after stars fall that new nations are born .
