 <ICLE-SW-UG-0016.2> 
As crime rates soak, the demand for longer prison terms increases, but would that do any good? What is the purpose of a prison sentance and what should decide its length? I will briefly present a few thoughts on this and try to show both sides of the issue .
First we must look at the function of the sentance. Is the purpose to; A) punish the criminal B) give the fellon a chanse to do penance or C) a way for society to isolate dangerous individuals. The way one choses to look at the problem will of course influence the stand one takes. If one sees punishment as the main reason one will probably be in favour of long sentences. This will probably also be the case if one feels that it is society that needs protection. However, if one on the other hand favours the concept of a prison term as a new chance for the villain, chances are you would argue for shorter terms .
Using these three different viewpoints one would also have different opinions on which criminal should do the longest amount of time. If prison is seen mainly as a punishment, people who have committed violent crimes should receive long sentances. A specific crime should carry an equivalent punishment. If on on the other hand sees the stay in prison as a way of protecting society, those who seem likely to commit new crimes should be given longer sentances and repeat offenders longer still. A propagator for rehabilitation would say that each individual has different needs and possibilities and that the sentence should vary according to these .
To what good is a term in prison?
No survey has yet been able to show any decrease in crime rates due to prolonged prison terms. Therefore it would seem that the argument for putting people in prison in order to protect society is not a valid one .
As far as the other two are conserned there seems to be no absolute truth. A good system for rehabilitation, especially if its used very early in a persons life can work miracles. On the other hand, if its put in to action too late and without proper resources, it usually fails. Then all that remains for us to do is to punish the perpetrator .
So what is the worst sollution?
I would say the "middle of the road" one. You do not punish, you do not rehabilitate and yo do not even try to protect society. In other words, the Swedish way .
