 <ICLE-SW-UG-0002.2> 
Is there a hope for Man without Nature. The answer is naturally no since Man is a part of Nature. Still he is about to destroy major parts of it, both forests and seas. What are the reasons for destroying a part of one self? Since immemorial times Man has been a consumer in society and the more he consumed the more he wanted. Time passed and due to Man's demand and his intensiveness a revolutionary period in the 19th century took place, i.e. Industrialism which started in Europe. Industrialism meant a lot of positive results, but what Man forgot in his lust for consumption, was Nature. Factories started to vomit toxic smoke and the environment suffered. And it still does. Bangkok, the capital of Thailand is today the most polluted capital in the world. But who cares when Thailand's economic growth is on the increase and is better than ever before. A great many people in Bangkok can consume more than they could earlier, eventhough they need to wear muzzles to protect themselves from the polluted air. The prize for consumption has become very high and fortunately certain people have realized that something has to be done. In Europe today environmental questions are very topical and politicians discuss it often. It has almost come into fashion to think about the environment. Today it is possible to buy recycled goods and detergent which are environmentally friendly. Still in other parts of the world, especially those Industrialism reached later, environmental questions are almost neglected. Some people would perhaps say, -But if others do not think of the environment why should I? This way of thinking is dangerous. It is important to think that each individul effort makes a lot of results in the end. It is important to think of Nature as irreplaceable. What is done in Europe to save the environment is a good start of the necessary help Nature needs. An important thing is to spread this new way of thinking to the whole world. An almost impossible task, but nevertheless crucial for our existence, would be to change peoples' attitudes towards consumption and material well-fare. Furthermore, people have to look upon Nature as something we borrow during our life-time, a relatively short time on earth .
This philosopic idea will probably not be wide spread all over the world until it is a little too late. Very often something terrible must happen before people take action. After the nuclear reactor accidents in the 70's and 80's many people started to realize the gravity of the situation and perhaps the changed their ideas about Nature. But for others it soon fell into oblivion. Changing peoples attitudes would probably take more than a century and who could be responsible for that? Maybe it could be Nature itself. Sometimes Nature takes its "revenge", by earth-quakes and typhons and who knows, one day the silence of Nature may be broken by something worse .
