 <ICLE-SW-UV-0005.3> 
The spacecraft Conquistador of the Great Space Federation is attacked by unidentified enemy forces. Through the heavy fire of laser beams space shuttles are sent out to defend her. Most of them will never return. At his computer a young man is struggling to defend his spacecraft against his opponent on the other side of the Atlantic to whom he is connected by way of the Internet. Contrary to what some people say, there is still room for dreaming and imagination in our modern world, dominated by science, technology and industrialisation. Only nowadays our dreams and what we imagine as well as our means to make them come true have changed to some extent. Also, our time is more strictly divided between working-hours and spare time than it used to be in agricultural society. This means that we have to plan our time if we want to make our dreams come true .
Most people dream of and plan for a long and healthy life. Medical science, good health care and prosperous economies has made this to a realistic dream. In order to make this dream come true we save money in pension funds, we work out and we eat healthy food. Some people sell their houses when they retire and set off to see the world, others dream of devoting their time to their hobbies or spending more time with their families and/or their grandchildren .
Parents dream of giving their children a happy childhood and adolescence as well as good education and upbringing. Activities and sometimes even schools are chosen with care and great interest. Mothers often work part-time to be able to spend time with their children .
Many young people dream of making a career in show-business, to become a star through singing, dancing or playing an instrument. Indeed, there are great opportunities these days, not to become a star, but for young people to develop their skills in these fields. Schools and private organisations give classes at relatively low costs and instruments can be rented or bought second hand .
Some young people devote their time to role-playing in which they create imaginary characters and societies together with people of the same interest. They can spend hours developing plots, rules, settings and characters as well as costumes and masks. Role plays are mostly set in another distant time which gives the imagination free scope .
Travelling is another thing that many people dream about. To some it is enough with a week by the sea every summer while others work around the clock saving every penny they earn until they can afford a trip round the world. In both cases it is something that you look forward to, dream about, and plan for .
One way of using your imagination popular among people interested in New Age is to undertake an inner journey through meditation, relaxation or hypnosis. Through visualisation it is believed that you can create positive images of yourself that will help you to achieve your goals and make your dreams come true .
In our modern world of today people dream just as much as they always have done and always will do. What differs from earlier days is that today we have greater opportunities to make our dreams come true thanks to science, technology and industrialisation .
