 <ICLE-SW-UV-0008.3> 
Money is necessary to survive. That is a fact in today's society. Money can do a lot of good We need money to buy clothes, and food for ourselves and our families. Money can help us pursue our dreams and travel around the world, in the hope that with a greater understanding of other cultures we can hopefully be able to avoid conflicts. This is not all, in return for money we can get medical aid and send a letter from one part of the country to another. Sending money to charity organisations is an easy way for us to help people in need, who lack all that which we in the West take for granted. We can also buy fancy cars and have plastic surgery to make us look better and to make us more attractive for the opposite sex. We can buy swimming pools or spend money on Beluga caviar. This is where the problem begins. When you have money you can buy beautiful, expensive items to impress your friends. However, they, in turn, will also try to make as much money as possible to become even more rich, more powerful and to be able to be looked up at by more and more people. Greed is known as one of the mortal sins, and it is fairly easy to understand why. If everyone could make as much money as they wanted to, its value would quickly be lost, which is why the amount of pounds, dollars and yens in the world hardly changes. Thus in order to get really, really rich, you have to get your money from someone else. In our greed we look the other way while the earth's natural resources are depleted, the rain forest destroyed and the polar ice melts, only because we simply must have that mahogany desk since it would go so well with the wallpapers, and because we would not look half as attractive if we tried to survive without the hair spray containers. The fact that they contain CFC:s is of no greater importance. Unfortunately, what we seem to have forgotten in our hunt for money, and the power that comes with it, is that the most valuable commodity of them all is the one that we walk on every day. That is right; Earth. So far, we have not managed to invent a way to leave this planet to settle on another one, once this one has been completely destroyed. So until we have found a way to evacuate the entire population of earth, we ought perhaps to think twice about what we are spending our money on and how that item can help, not only ourselves but Mother Earth .
