 <ICLE-GE-AUG-0007.1> 
Have you ever happened to compare the city of Munich with the town of Zermatt in Switzerland? If not, please do so. In Munich you've got roaring buses and lorries, crazy motor-cyclists and car-drivers, traffic lights and traffic islands, parking-meters and lollypop-men and these kind of things. So you see, hear and smell all the hectic of everyday's traffic, which sounds like a mixture of a technological staccato and a motorized symphony. In Zermatt everything is different, because Zermatt is the only town in Europe, where there are no cars. It's amazing, but true that there's no car in a town where 13000 people (and at least 2 tourists per every local inhabitant) live, but the town council of Zermatt ordered in 1978 that all cars have to be banned in their town. Now they have fresh air, no noise-pollution, no exhaust-fumes, and no more injuries caused by car-accidents. According to an opinion poll nine out of ten people in Zermatt point out that they don't regret that decision. Except the lollypop-men and the traffic wardens everybody welcomed this decision, but these groups had feared that they might get unemployed, but nowadays they work as conducters on a little electro-train which was built in the late 70's just to keep the public transport alive .
"We are very content with this situation" says Carl Zürchli, a member of the local council in Zermatt, "because since 1978 no one in our town has been deadly injured in a traffic accident or died because of lung-cancer". "This is unique in the whole world and the fresh air is incredible" remarks John O'Neill, a tourist from New Zealand and his wife adds: "Yes, that's why we are going there every year." And Paul Wirtlin, the catholic priest of Zermatt claims: "Cars are no longer a necessary evil, they have become the totem of a society obsessed with persuit of profit, league tables and doubtful "objectivity". We must get rid of them. The spirit of the new age is embodied here, where we learned to live without cars and found out that it works even better." Thomas Riccola, the headmaster of the local grammar-school says: "We are proud that we started to preserve our ecological environment. Of course, we know that this idea might cause difficulties in a big city, but why shouldn't they have a try?" Indeed, the idea is great, because it helps to stop pollution and the ecological disaster, but what town is curagous enough to imitate it?
By the way: I was in Zermatt in June last year and it's true: It's the only town in Europe where there are no cars, except little electromobiles for the ambulance, police and so on .
