 <ICLE-GE-DRE-0003.1> 
In former times, old parents and grandparents always lived with their children and grandchildren in one house or household. Today this isn't the case anymore. There was a change some years ago that every little family should live on their own .
Thinking about the changing tradition, I feel old parents and grandparents should not live with their children in one house .
My first argument for this are the different views of live every generation has. In modern times, lifestyle changes very quickly and grandparents, particularly old parents don't understand their children as far as moral values are concerned. The various generations often have arguments about this, and life in such a household is sometimes hard and difficult .
Many people could object to this saying life in a big house with all members of a family is much easier than every family alone in a flat. Parents could help their children in the field of educating the kids, babysitting and so on. I think this is an aspect which has many advantages for young parents. the elderly are also needed, and this gives them a good feeling. In return I would say that this objection doesn't work. The majority of families lives in flats consisting of three rooms, kitchen and bathroom. So the living conditions for old parents, grandparents and their children are not very comfortable. Society often doesn't give them a chance to live together .
Another argument is the lifestyle of the old parents and grandparents. The older those people are the more they need their rest. They should not live hectically and restless. I think children are very noisy and little regardful of their parents or grandparents. They always want to play with their parents. So the grandparents often keep their grandchildren busy. This is sometimes very exhausting for the elderly. I think they should spend the evening of their life in rest and not with the fatiguing children .
There is the objection that the old parents and grandparents feel younger and for that reason also better. They are given great respect by their children. These activities help them to stay demanding regarding their mental ability. Today, more and more children don't go to the kindergarten because of their old parents being at home the whole day. So they don't need to go to the kindergarten and spend their time at home in a quiet, familiar atmosphere. The children are educated with love. Grandparents also have time for their grandchildren. This is a very important point for the children in a world where parents haven't got time for their kids. At the same time, this helps the parents to save time for themselves doing the shopping and so on .
In return, this objection doesn't work. I believe children like more playing with children of the same age than playing with adults. So they are growing up under an older generation what may be a negative aspect for their childhood. They are very spoilt and have problems to adapt theirselves in a group, for instance in a form at school .
In conclusion, I feel even without a direct contact in a house, old parents and grandparents with their children can help each other and build a large family which respects each other's views, values and believes .
