 <ICLE-GE-DRE-0021.1> 
No matter where we look, there is the tendency of isolation in our modern, civilised cociety. People don't need each other any more as they used to do. The technically equipt life offers many opportunities to get along without the help of others. The sad part: This development is just at it's begining .
As every day I am going to the university by train. Opposite me there is a young man. He wears headphones and I can tell he is listening to very loud music. While listening he plays with a "Gameboy". He seems to be isolated from what is going on around him. A little further away from me a woman reads a newspaper. The articles must be very interesting because she never looks up or tries to talk to the people next to her .
Those are just some examples, but we face them every day .
Coming from former GDR I notice this problem very conciusly. In Eastgermany people needed each other. Not that I try to praise the cociety we had. But because of the supression by the socialist goverment, the lack of certain goods etc, people held together and helped each other. After the changes we got bussy with our own life, we are provided with what we need. The shops are full with things that make the individual independent from others. There is just one thing we can not buy: interhuman relations and friendship. It is right that a human being needs society or as Franklin puts it: <*> But the validity of this statement has changed in a satirical way. People don't need society because of interhuman relations .
Nowadays it is important to be recognised by others, to play one's role in cociety. That is even if this role does not match the real character of the person .
Society sets certain trends and the majority follows those trends. Not being excepted seems to be the worst thing. And so people hide their real faces behind masks of trends, fashion and lies .
The tendency I am talking about is not there for very long. And it comes especially with our highly specialised society. The poor countries are lucky, because they don't know this problem yet. This may sound strange. But I think they still have a kind of innocence, the innocence we partly had in former GDR and that we lost .
Lately I visited some refugees from Bosnia. They were 10 persons, living in two rooms. But it worked and their was no complaint. The were so friendly to each other and to me. I could tell that this friendyness was not falce but true. They did not have much, but offered a lot to me, the guest. We talked a lot, about their home country, their family, but there was no showing off ore excegerating at all, no try to show me what poor people they were. This visit was like medicin to me. At the same time I had a sad feeling. I knew, after living in Germany for a while there would be the danger for them to integrate in this snobbish conceited wealthy German society. I hope they will keep some of their "innocence".
What I said may sound very pessimistic but it is what I have seen and learned. Nevertheless I have not given up the hope that this development is kind of reversible. There are many examples that it is possible. I hope we learn that the individual does need the union. But for getting closer and not for isolation .
