 <ICLE-GE-DRE-0004.1> 
A short time ago an interesting article was published in a big German news magazine. This article have told a lot of facts about experiences of scientists who have tried to communicate with animals. It sounds a little bit strange - the idea of communication with animal life .
Until a few years ago a talk between man and an animal was one-sided. Until then nobody had been interested to find out whether animals have a consciousness and whether they are able to communicate with members of their species. Since the middle of this century behavioural scientists try to find out whether animals are envolved enough to possess the ability of communication In 1969 it was ready. The first time an animal notified a man of it's thoughts. A chimpanzee pointed her finger at her mirror image and sad "That's me." She sad it not in human language but in gestures of the American deaf-and-dumb language. It was a great, brilliant and immediate bridge across the abysse between man and animal .
Surely, it was important, but what was the sense of the whole experiment?
Scientists justify their work with the aim of exploration of the consciousness of animals. They want to find out whether a highly developed animal organism can identify itself and other creatures of it's species as individuals. This theory was proved by the chimpanzee Washoe in 1969. She has identified her mirror image as a picture of herself. This act has showed that highly developed animals have a awareness of themselves .
But the most animals don't have speech organs. How can they speak?
It's obvious that animals can't speak like people do. But there are a lot of other possibilities of communication. Animals like apes can express simple thoughts in gestures of the deaf-and-dumb language ore they use keys with symbols and numbers. Other animals possess speech organs and can speak in human language like the intelligent grey parrot .
But how much could they express with their limited possibilities?
All animals who can express themselves are able to put feelings into words. They also can put a request, a wish ore a need into words. These words are very simple but they serve their purpose. Some of them are able to distinguish numbers, symbols (triangle, circle), colors and some materials like wood, wool ore cork. Animals don't only parrotfashion without rhyme and reason. They voice independently and without request .
But is the idea of talking animals not only a dream of the mankind? Is it not a projection of human qualities on an animal creature?
At the first moment it looks like that. But to teach an animal speaking is the only way to find out whether a highly developed animal creature is able to think. If an individual has the ability to speak independently so it is the proof of a second ability - the ability to think. Yes, animals can think. Not like we people do but they can do it. It is also the proof that highly developed animals possess intelligence .
The first talk with an animal has been a big sensation. There was and are a lot of praise and enthusiasm about it and also a lot of criticism and doubt. Scientifics realize that the success of these experiments have many consequences - bad and good. But they should see to it that the animals should not bear only the bad consequences. The direction of the development of these experiments should be thinken in all details .
