 <ICLE-GE-SAL-0003.3> 
Has our society offered tolerance as a sacrifice to new values such as career and aspiration to wealth? - No, tolerance is still as important as other Christian values, just as brotherly love and helpfulness. However, these values are doomed to get lost. We have to fight for these values in order to preserve a "human society". But how can we struggle for these values?
The only way to preserve tolerance is teaching tolerance. Teaching tolerance already starts with infants. Parents must make it plain to their children that tolerance is not, as many people think, giving in, but showing respect for others. Besides, parents should not forget that the most effective way of teaching tolerance is to show their own tolerance. Already infants have to cope with the problems of tolerating others. They must tolerate other children who are at a disadvantage, who are handicapped and are weaker. Children who have learned to tolerate others from infancy will not be confronted with the problems of tolerating others, when they are grown-ups. They will not have difficulties in accepting others, who are inferior to them. But these children, who have never been taught to tolerate others, will develop into egotistical people, who have only an eye to their own interests .
Then teaching tolerance goes on in schools. Teachers must set a good example and show their pupils that it is essential to see a person's good qualities rather than a person's faults. Teachers must demonstrate that we are not allowed to compare a person's skills with his character. Teachers can do so by accepting weak pupils and by showing better ones that weak pupils also have good qualities. It is necessary that teachers do not value their pupils' characters by their results in school. Only by this way, by setting them an example will children learn to tolerate others .
Many people are of the opinion that tolerance is not important at work and that it is even an obstacle. They only think of their own advantages and of their own careers. They forget others - or even worse - they try to outdo them and fight against them. They only consider the others as rivals. They seem to have forgotten that it is more effective to work with others than to work against them. They have unlearned to regard their workmates as human beings. However, working atmosphere will be almost unbearable, if there is no tolerance, no cooperativeness and n helpfulness between workmates. Besides, not only workmates, but also bosses have unlearned to tolerate others. They do not accept other people's failures and shortcomings. But, in my opinion, if we cannot tolerate our failures and faults, we will forget that we are human beings. We have to tolerate that "nobody is perfect".
Recently the number of divorces has increased. One reason for this high number of divorces is that people do not want any longer to tolerate the others' failures and idiosyncrasies. But as long as we are not willing to tolerate others, many partnerships will fail. Tolerance also implies accepting other people's opinions and views. This is essential for all partnerships .
This kind of tolerance should also be the basis for politics. Many politicians are not able to tolerate other political views. They defame their political opponents, because they have never been taught to tolerate others. But not only is tolerance an important factor for politics in general, but also for world politics, as history has shown us. Intolerance of others has resulted in the ghastliest events of history - and it still leads to such terrible events. In the Second World War intolerance of Jews, of orphans and of handicapped people resulted in mass murder in the notorious concentration camps. Because of the Nazis' intolerance of other people thousands had to die, although they had never injured or hurt or harmed others. Recent history has given us other examples of the catastrophic consequences of intolerance: As the different ethnic groups in the former Yugoslavia have not been able to accept the others, disastrous fights have taken place. And as long as the Serbs, the Croats and Bosnians do not to tolerate each other, these fights will go on .
However, recent history has also proved us that tolerance is still a present value. Since the Blacks and the Whites in south Africa have been tolerating each other, the tensions between them have got more relaxed. Nelson Mandela has demonstrated that Dr. Martin Luther King's words and wishes can be fulfilled. Martin Luther King, who fought for the Blacks' rights in the Sixties, struggled for tolerance and brotherly love with his famous words "... I have a dream that one day our children will play side by side, like brothers and sisters ...". With these words Dr. King pleaded for the Whites' tolerance for the Blacks and it seems that at leastin South Africa his wish came true .
However, some people overdo tolerance and cannot distinguish between being tolerant and being exploited. We are not allowed to give up our own tolerance. Tolerance neither involves the restriction of our personal freedom nor the restriction of other people's freedom. Tolerance implies respect for others, acceptance of other people's views and opinions and approving of their failures and shortcomings .
To my mind Hermann Hesse, one of my favourite authors, writes about tolerance, when he says: <*> 
