 <ICLE-GE-SAL-0004.3> 
" Every man is the architect of his own future" Right on the beginning of this essay I would like to make clear that I am not very happy with that statement. I started the preparations for this essay with some sort of word-by-word-analysis of the headline and tried to become fully aware of the meaning of each word .
The word that seemed most striking tome is ' architect'. Although I do not know much about that profession I think that one problem is right at hand: The architect is always a representative if the analytical and theoretical species. He is not the person that carries out things. If I transferred that role into everybody's life the meaning of the statement would turn out as follows: Every single person draws the plan of his life .
To my mind this sounds impossible and I would like to give some reasons why: If I wanted to draw a plan I would have to take measures first, I would have to know how much space there is available for my project and I would have to fix the deadline until which the plan has to be carried out. According to ground features and weather conditions material would have to be chosen . "All right", one might say, "but what does this mean relative to human life?". I tried to find an answer: If I tried to take measures of my life I would have to be able to examine it in isolation. This is only possible if a clear distinction is made between life as an unalterable, clearly defined item and a medium that is constantly influenced by its surroundings and reacts with it. This interchange on the other hand can also be used to define the space that may be used by one individual. It ends where that of another person begins .
Referring to the limitation of time it might be argued that hardly ever in anybody's life authority lies with human beings as far as bringing about certain events at fixed times is concerned . ' Events' in this case does certainly not mean all the typical secular happenings like marriages, exams and similar things but those that really are essential for everybody's life such as births, death, etc .
To come to the last point I mentioned above: Whoever knows about the condition of the ground on which he sets foot? - How can anybody be sure that the soil will not be exhausted within a short period of time? - How can people be assured that they will not sink if they concentrate weight on a small spot of land?- Can the weatherforecast fro an area where temperatures if compared to the emotions we are confronted with range from arctical to tropical ones be so precise that material is sensibly chosen on grounds of it? I doubt it .
I do not want to ignore those people who tried to be architecs of their lives. Those woh tried to gather all the information available from former generations and who tried to extinguish all the eventualities.- The same people who failed fully aware that life is something that is too complex to be understood by means of our restricted brains .
I have cast a lurid light on our lives so far leaving the impression that things are fully predetermined, that the course of events is fixed and things just happen to us. It probably seems as if human beings are bound to act like puppets in a marionette-play .
I regard neither this nor the ' architect-approach ' as the one that describes reality at least approximately. To refer to the terms used in the beginning I am tempted to describe the part we play in our lives as that of the masterbuilder in stead of that of the architect .
We are provided with some space on earth and we know that on the plan which is to be the basis of our work two points are marked, birth and death. These two points fix the dimensions of the land on which the masterbuilder is going to work. All other decisions are left to him: He orders whether the building is going to be plain hut or a palace. He either uses machines or employs some people who help him to carry bricks and stones to the place where this material is needed. If this is the case he will either try to be present at the building site as often as possible or he will leave all the work to these people. He has to keep in mind the amount of money he can spend. He may take the risk of building on credit or he may use savings .
I would like to leave the building site now and stop this theoretical description of life. It think it is high time to draw attention to another word that struck me when reading this essay's headline. Therefore I would like to discuss the following question: "What does ' future ' mean to us?" I constantly get the impression that many people live their lives only in one direction. They are mainly interested in what the future is going to bring and take great pains to reach aims that most times are far ahead of them. I have noticed that many pupils get aware of their ' future-orientation ' for the first time when they finish school. Up to that moment they live from exam to exam (or probably from weekend to weekend if they hate school) and when they passed the final one they often do not know what to do. As long as they have not found the next aim they will not feel happy. The same is found in much smaller units of life: How often do we wish that the working day should be over? How often do we wonder about the ending of a book, the outcome of a story?
One might oppose my argumentation saying that it is just natural and sensible not to look back all the time and to be interested in happenings which by definition only take place in course of time. I fully agree to that. What I want to stress is the fact that there are many people who live solely for the future, at best for the present. What their lives lack is something I would call ' reflection'.
To my mind ' reflecting ' one's life is the only possibility one has to combine past, present and future. In my opinion only the constant analysis of things that happened, of those that are going on at the moment and of those that re going to happen can provide us with the equipment we need to lead a life that is probably not better than another one but for sure more intensive. If ' intensive ' means that a lot of attention or action is given to a small amount of something or in a small amount of time it is closely related to 'sensitivity'. The latter is certainly badly needed by society .
As a consequence of these considerations I would express the initial statement <*> in different words: <*> 