 <ICLE-IT-BER-0002.2> 
To own a car is very useful, you can go where and when you like. A car makes you feel independent. When you have to go to work in a very distant place you need a car. When you go on holiday by car you feel free because you can make some stops during your journey, you can change your route at the last moment, you can make a tour near the place where your hotel or your camp-site is situated. While if you travel by train sometimes you can't visit other resorts because there are no stations there. A car takes you from door to door, indeed it can reach even little villages in the mountain where no other means of transport are able to arrive. Your car takes you in the exact place where you want to go and you have not to walk, to change train or bus or to wait at the station or at the bus stop .
But in recent years the number of cars per family has been increasing. In some families each member owns a car .
Besides there is another phenomenon about which I am very worried. A lot of people think to have more sex appeal if they drive a new powerful speedy car .
This great quantity of cars in our cities causes traffic problems. At particular times of the day the streets of the city centres are congested. The lack of parking areas is another big problem caused by the increase in cars number. So streets are full of cars which make the aesthetics of monuments and ancient places worse. Neither tourists nor inhabitants can peacefully admire them because there is too much noise .
As a matter of fact car traffic does not only produce air pollution, because of the emission of gass which are very dangerous for our health, but also acoustic pollution .
Besides we live in a lazy society because car ownership has made us lazier. People have got used to walking less and less because they use car even to go to a place which is five hundred metres distant .
Since car was invented men have had the opportunity to make distances become shorter as well as time, so people want to do all quickly, they are always in a hurry also because they can really do much more things during a day than their grandparents. So they go on driving, polluting, buying cars. But in this way their psyco-phisical balance gets in danger .
Another big consequence of this problem is the increase in car accidents number, whose reason is logical because if car producers build more and more powerful cars, drivers will wish to drive faster and faster and we know that most accidents are caused by too high speed .
As we can easily realise disadvantages of cars great quantity are much more than advantages, so that is a problem and we have to resolve it .
If all of us used public means of transport, there would probably be some positive consequences. Trains for example are more ecological than cars. If we used buses there would be less traffic, less noise in the cities and less accidents .
It is difficult for us not to use car at all, but we can try using it only when really necessary. For istance if you have to go to a place where you can go by bus or by train it is better to leave your car at home. If you can go there on foot it is better for society because you don't pollute, it is better for yourself because you do not become lazy and last but not least it is cheaper .
In order to try solving accidents problem in my opinion car producers should build cars with a maximum speed of 130 km per hour for Italian market because in Italy this is the maximum limit allowed on motorways .
Besides I am sure that there is a way to build electric cars because engineers have built some phototypes, but cars producers don't want to produce them because they would probably earn less money. But I think that the real reason is that if we could drive electrical cars, we could use less petrol so oil producer countries would earn less. As oil producer countries are also the most powerful countries they cannot allow it, because they want to keep on being the richest in the world thanks to their energy sources ownership .
