 <ICLE-IT-ROMS-0020.1> 
Keats and Shelley are romantic poets of the second generation, they aproach themes as nature, human condition, death... through poetry, giving great importance to imagination and simbolism. Wordsworth's harmonic relationship between man and nature has come to an end, They/Keats and Shelley have different reaction to this new state of things; Shelley concludes with a sense of hope and an invocation towards Nature and God while Keats raises sense of illusion: 	The structure of * Ode to the West Wind * is very important, Shelley is writing about something that is eternal, powerfull, beyond time, space and human will, the poet uses a fast pace and regular rhythm to underline these qualities (see rhymes, number of verses of each stanza, punctuation).
The main elements of the first stanza are in dead leaves and seeds, which mean death and rebirth, in other words, eternity. Nature is a system where death is defeated by using death itself (dead leaves produce humus) to create new life (seeds need humus). The poet has not a scientific interest in Nature, he is interested in the * Wild Spirit * and its Pantheistic speculation. Nature is the cause and the effect, see the reference to the Bibble; Jesus is the ALFA and the OMEGA, the wind is action while man has a static role of observer. The second stanza shows the power of the storm, the poets creates a sense of great expectation for the terrific event, mythologic and apocalitic (L) images are used, the <*> and the use of the - ing form shows that something is preparing to happen shifting in the second part into the future tense (see * will *). In the third stanza the poet shows that the wind is capable of everything; peace, tranquillity or tempest. The fourth stanza is the invocation, the poet introduces himself with the repetition of a key word * If * which expresses alienation, his being limited, oppressed but at the end of the poem it expresses a sense of the hope. The poem has its revelation; the contrast between man and Nature, man cannot be part (as with Wordsworth) of nature, there is the contrast between heaviness, weight, limitation ( <*> ) and strength, lightness of the waves, leaf, clouds, freedom ( <*> ). This is the sintesis of the first three stanzas and climax of the poem; man uncapable to reach Nature. The last stanza is the invocation and it ends with hope, if the wind is capable of everything, why shouldn't he lift the poet? Some parts of the human being are not heavy, parts as the Spirit <*> , thoughts <*> , words (L) all this leads to a prophecy of hope .
Keats' Ode to a Nightingale uses Nature connected to art, the main object of this poem is not Nature (which can be the cause of the production of art) but Art itself, Nature is a symbol, again, the poet feels the contrast between art and man, eternity and misery of human condition (see especially seventh stanza), man can only try to escape by art but it is a momentary escape, in other words, an illusion (see also the end with the image of a dream). The only escape for man is death, which is also the main difference between him and the Bird (L). In Keats the link between what man wants to be and what he is so wide that it makes the poet's awareness a drammatic state of being .
* Ode to a West Wind * is a sensuous poem, because, the poet involves first his senses (he sees, feels, hears...) and after at the fourth stanza, he is seduced deeply inside, a seduction which leads to hope. Keats' art is also seductive (art involves senses) but it doesn't last long, an illusion and I may, also, say a disilluion 