 <ICLE-IT-TOR-0015.2> 
This statement has to be seen only as the first step toward the total civilian disarmament. In order to reach this very ambitious aim, Governments need to operate following two main direction: to reduce drastically the market and to change human mentality regarding the use of guns, and these statements must go strictly together .
I believe that most of the 63 per million homicide by firearms in the United states (quoted from the * financial Times * article) are due to illegal guns bought on a illegal market, and even if gun ownership were made illegal criminals would keep on bear guns. What I suggest is to strongly control gun market, to make illegal the firearms ownership and most importantly to drastically reduce the production of guns in order to make illegal and also impossible for any civilian to bear a gun. There is no more evidence for a civilian to carry one, since so far seems to be the idea of individual's right of self-protection in our modern democracies. I suggest that following the Japanese example where, according to the article by Joe Rogaly the rate of guns homicide is very low as a result of a very strict policy on gun ownership, could be the right way: Governments must refuse economic interests in order to guarantee rights to life to their citizen .
On the other hand we have to face the human inherent violence that doesn't seem to have a correlative among other species of animal on the earth and which is the mass-media contribution to the increasing taste for violence in human society. Nobody can deny the great number of violent movies which everyday are shown on television and quiet evident seems to be the effect on the audience, but I disagree with the conclusion of Joe Rogaly about a receding moral absolutes: of course moral changes as custom changes, but I can feel, regarding guns and weapon, a new grow sensibility of fear and refuse to use a gun. Referring to my own experience I can see more and more young boy every year rejecting to join the army because a matter of social consciousness .
What I hope is that following the example of disarmament between USA e URSS after the end of the Cold War the same thing could happen among civilian. A new feeling of the useless of gun, a different way to relate each other .
