 <ICLE-TR-CUK-0022.1> 
20th century is the one in which great inventions and discoveries occurred and those affected people's lives both positively and negatively. There were some great inventions and discoveries in previous centuries too, bu t 20th century is more different than the other centuries .
First of all, televisions and radios were invented, and now they are the unavoidable components of our lives. They have a lot of functions. For example, you can see or hear what happens in other cities or countries which are very far away from where you are present. If you think how this can occur, it seems very interesting and unbelievable. They, also are useful for having fun and social and cultural life, but, unfortunately, they have some bad effects on people, because sometimes they include violence, abuse, etc... Therefore, people should use these vehicles for good aims, not for harmful aims .
Secondly, computers were invented and entered our daily lives as a very practical and beneficial vehicle. It is used now in many areas such as banks, schools, offices. Also, people use it for private purposes. Now, it is very important to be able to use a computer to find a job. If you know how to use, you have a great advantage for getting a job. Computers are improved from day to day to utilize from it in better ways. In fact, it is not difficult to learn how to use it, but you should save a little time to learn .
Internet, also has an important role in humankind life. It can be used for many purposes and internet is now very widespread. Many people pass their time in internet. It is very surprising because you can chat with a native or foreigner person who are far from you can send e-mail too. It is very important for communication and interaction and to follow what happens in the world .
Another one is the discovery of A-bomb which is in fact, very dangerous for mankind. It is great, but harmful because it can cause a great number of people's death if it is used. In World War II, A-bomb was used by U.S.A. in Japan, and many people died .
In 20th century X-rays were discovered and they are now used in medication for treatment. Doctors often utilize from X-rays to find what the disease is, what the disease results from .
Telephone is another great invention in 20th century and widespread in all over the world. You can talk to a friend or relative or a person who are in far places if you know his/her telephone number. It is very practical and easy to use. You only dial the numbers wait few seconds and start to speak .
Motor vehicles and planes are very great inventions in 20th century and take very important place in people's lives. They have so many types and brands and the prices change according to the type and brand. They are more expensive according to other inventions to possess, especially planes. Sometimes, they cause death due to accidents .
To sum up, 20th century is the century the most important inventions and discoveries were made entered human life. These inventions established life styles, ideas. Human being should utilize from these things in positive ways otherwise the world can be a place where people cannot live comfortably .
