 <ICLE-TR-CUK-0003.1> 
On the earth, people are trying to live in peace and comfort. But, in order to achieve the peace and comfort, they are to fit several basic principles at the same time. Because, people are living in different societies and are governed by the rules of these societies. Also, they are the people that is; they are the men and the women who are responsible for managing and carrying out these rules. This means that the men and the women are living together and are influencing each other. Because of this, the two sexes must have the same rights in the society; thus they are the corner stones of the societies and are in need of each other .
Although men and women are said to have the equal rights, in all societies of the world, the men are one step forward from women. This inequality first appear in the family and then shows its effect in al stages of social life. Especially in our country this inequality has gone on in a certain way for a long time, which is the result of that we have patriarchal family structure. Especially, when the boys are being brought up, they are always spoiled and this cause them to have a patriarchal thinking in their further lives as in their present lives. In our society, it has a special meaning to have a son. Moreover, before the child is born, parents are looking forward to have a boy by saying that "I could be better if the man has a son". When a girl is born, parent reach nonsensically and moreover, the women are accused of concerning about the result, because of ignorance .
I can say more interestingly that, in the rural areas of our society, the men divorced their wives on the assumption that the women don't give him a son .
Another inequality in our society resulting from our ethical principles is seen in the most important period of all individuals, in which the children are acquiring their sexual identities. Although there are magnificent celebrations for boys under the name of "sünnet düğünü", the passing of the little girls from the childhood to the youth is kept secret. This change is shown to the girls as if they should be ashamed of it. Because of that children have been brought up by those kind of different treatments from their childhood, it is inevitable that their thoughts are effected. As time passes, the two sexes has begun to play the given roles-limited for girls and limitless for boys .
In other words, children become aware of their roles in their future lives including; family life, school life, business life and social life on account of inequal love and interest in that ages. As a consequence, girls grow without their personalities are developed too much and they learn to be content with the little. When the situation is this, the most important thing for women become to marry and have children. Social life and business life become a matter of secondary importance. So, the men seize the opportunity to do everything. This is the wish to be gained by them, anyway .
We can see inequality during the marriage. Anyhow, women comes to her husband's home from the family home, in which he exposed to inequality and this time she becomes the slave of her husband. Maybe, the women will be exposed to a more inequal situation, that is, she will be exposed some amborgoes such as; prohibition of clothing in the way of her wishes, prohibition of going out, moreover gong to her father's house, prohibition of spending money. Besides these, she is beaten. Sometimes, as we hear from the television, there may occur some cruel attacks. If there is a need to give example, as I see on television, the man bit his wife's ear and nose on the assumption of her refuse of having?
As I stated before, we can see inequality between the two sexes in every stage of life. Until here, I have stated the situation of women in the family. But I haven't mentioned about inequality in the social life, which is the extension of inequality in the family life. I want to say that the situation in the business life is not even pleasant for women. Because, as I stated before, it hasn't given much interest in education of girls. For this reason, in the business life women raise no objection. In the present jobs however, women aren't given opportunities .
However, women haven't given the same rights for a long time past, they can compete with men in every subject; especially we can come across with this situation in this period. From now on, women have participated in several branches such as; sports, arts, literature, army and music. Moreover, they compete with men in having jobs which require wrist power .
In any case, in this developing world, there is no need to argue about sex equality. We should pay attention to raise the living standards of human beings .
