 <ICLE-TR-CUK-0005.1> 
The question that if women and men are equal or not has occupied humans' mind since human being was created. Even today it's argued and it will continue in that way. Women and men are both equal and not equal. They are equal in most sides but they are not equal physically so their not being equal physically causes this argument .
Firstly, I want to talk about men's being stronger physically than women. There is no problem about strength of men and also it may be useful for women as when they can't success doing something for example; when they want to lift a heavy bag, they want from men to help them. Until here, everything is normal, there is no problem for both genders, but if men use their this advantage, which is due to creation of them, for their bad desires, men's these ambitions may be reason of the problems or arguments about two sexes. As a matter of fact, lots of males use their this opportunity in a bad way .
Even in this century, in the age of millennium, we see in our environment, watch from television or read on newspapers that women are being beaten by their husbands. What a bad situation for females! But this is real. Last week I read the news about a women who was beaten mercilessly by her husband since she couldn't iron his shirt as she was very ill. When I read this news my hatred against males who beat females increased very much. What a pity, this event shows that as women are weaker than men physically, they are exposed to be beaten by men .
Furthermore, I want to deal with two genders' education situation. The reason I want to point out this matter that girls are not sent to the schools even today due to their sex in some regions of our country such as East Anatolia and south - east Anatolia regions. Only, as being female, daughters are not permitted by their fathers to study at schools. I'm going to tell about an event from a film in which while making interview, speaker asks to the men who live in East Anatolia Region about their number of children and most of them say that they have six, seven or more children. Again, when interviewing one of men says that I have only one child and this makes speaker confused but when they go this man's home we see that man has one son and seven daughters. In this event, I can say that women or daughters are treated as inferior .
Without being weaker physically than men, women are equal with men at every subject. When a man cheats his wife it's normal, but when a woman cheats her husband she becomes scoundrel and shameless. This, proves the unacceptable point of view of society to the women. If men's cheating seems an ordinary event, women's cheating also must seem an ordinary event by society. I think females must have same rights about cheating each other like on every subject .
Although, women are treated as inferior, they can do anything what men do. For instance, they can be professors, drivers, pilots, even prime ministers just like in our country. In my opinion, women are more eager than men about doing what they want, so, if they want, they may be everything they want .
Moreover, women are more polite than men. That's they behave and speak more politely. On televisions we see female speakers mostly, male speakers are less than females so, this may be instance of women's being polite and beautiful creatures .
At last, we can say that after that moment there is no need of discussing men's and women's equality. Without males having strong physics, both genders are equal on every subject .
