 <ICLE-TR-CUK-0004.1> 
Cheating is the most important helper of the students and naturally it is a plague for the teachers. I think that there are not any students who have not cheated in the exams or if there are, they are too few that we can count them .
If we make a simile, we can say that exams are like a war for the students, and in this war teachers and students are the sides. Mostly students see their teachers as their enemies and cheating is their gun. They think that if they get good marks, they are the winners but they feel as if they lose the war if they get bad marks. However it is different for the teachers. In my point of view they do not see the exams as a war since they have nothing to lose. But there is one thing that they have to struggle with in the exams and it is cheating. Most of them are definitely against cheating. In fact there is one thing that I have never understood. These teachers who want to prevent cheating were once students. I am sure that they had been cheating too when they were students so what has changed? If they used to do the same things they should let the students. I wonder whether I let my students to cheat or not. Perhaps I find the answer when I will be a teacher .
The students need to cheat because of lots of reasons. They cheat if they do not want to study for the exam, if the questions are too difficult, if they can only be answered by memorizing or if they do not like the teacher. These are some of them and also there are so many ways of cheating. In the past there were simpler ways of cheating but today as these methods were learned by the teachers and the students are more awake and the teachers are too, they develop more complex ways. Now it is very difficult for a teacher to find some of the students while cheating although he or she is very careful. The students are so good at doing this, the teachers will not even notice. I think that if they study instead of using their brain to find ways for cheating or preparing little notes or some other useful! Materials, they can be more successful .
If there is a cheating problem for a teacher, the question which need to be answered is that "how can I prevent this?" There are also lots of ways for this. But I think the most important ones are to like and to be liked by the students, to be friends with them, to make the lesson more enjoyable and easier for them, try not to ask too difficult questions, and also try to ask questions which should not require memorizing answers. If they can answer them by giving comments they do not need to cheat .
Shortly we can say that as long as the students exist in this in this world, cheating will continue. There is no efficient way or no teacher to prevent this completely. For me cheating is in the nature of the students .
