 <ICLE-TR-CUK-0006.1> 
Most of the people commit suicide when they are hopeless and desperate . They see suicide as a solution but in fact it is not a solution but escaping .
According to me people must not commit suicide no matter what the reason is (In fact it is not right for me to say this , I may commit suicide one day ; I hope I never feel the compulsory of it in me ). They must not lose their hope for life because there is nothing that you can't find a solution if you think logically and become strong towards life so , mostly weak people choose this way because they are rot as strong as to struggle with difficulties and they are not clever also . Because as you know , the literal meaning of intelligence is the person's level of capacity to find solutions for the problems that they are faced up with, we may create a result from this that stupid people commit suicide . It is open to argue about , just an idea . . .
I think suicide can be when there is a conscious lose because I believe that people can't kill themselves with conscious . Mostly , people commit suicide when they are psychologically disturbed and can't think logically .
They are hurt so much that they are not aware of how bad attitude they have done and how the people who are around him or her will be sorry for him or her after her death .
In recent days, there has been a suicide in our dormitory. It has been in the downstairs of our room, it was terrific. Thanks the god that I wasn't in the dormitory in that time because the girls in dormitory in that evening had been affected from the event too much . But no matter what the reason was , she must not have done it . She was too young , she had a lot of days to live . If she had tried to solve her problems or talked with someone else about that maybe , she would not be dead now . But nobody knows the real reason for her death; suicide Her close friends were sorry too much . So , people must not suicide not only for themselves but also for their acquaintances . Acquaintances accuse the person for his death because she creates death for herself not by another force she dies .
I know it is wrong but I approved of this girl's suicide because they said that her family didn't care about her death and they even didn't come to take the corpse of her . They were not interested in their daughter so if someone's family is like this , if they are not interested and don't show their love , affection to her , if they attitude as an ordinary person , being in right the child feels lonely and have problems I don't know 	whether you realized or not the people who have a family that they can trust on don't do like these things because family trust give the person self esteem , trust . They struggle with problems , they believe that they have family who will save her from difficulties even they haven't got so much friends .
Some people commit suicide to give a message to the people that he know; acquaintances, maybe to take revenge from them for the things that they have done to him or her. They do this to make feel regretful. In fact there becomes nothing to acquaintances but only to him or her. They continue to live but she dies, so it is not a good solution choice . They must try to struggle with them in life to realize for their aims , they must rot give up and do this .
As a result no matter what the reason is, you must not commit suicide as I said before it is not a way of finding solution , just escaping . Only weak people do this you must be as strong as you can and face up with difficulties . There is nothing that can not be solved in the world .
