 <ICLE-TR-CUK-0021.1> 
In the 20th century although, there were many negative events, the technology continued to develop themselves and many people struggled to develop the technology to bring many opportunities to people's lives. There are many inventions in this century. In fact it is not important that by whom they are invented, it is important the benefits of these inventions .
Before computer invented, people had to write the data of their study on paper and had to filed them. After computer had invented, people began to know how to use it and began to gather the information about their study in the programs on the computer. Especially nowadays computers are very important. All systems are related to it. For example , the systems of a bank, a company, a school, and so on. So it's very useful. For example, if we did not have computer, we could not enter our assignments in the computer. We can communicate all the people in the world with it by chatting and we can have more information in all over the world in the internet. So one of the most important inventions is in the field of "communication." Besides computers, telephones, fax machines are invented in this century and also they gave us the opportunity of communication with more people in our world in many more fields .
One of the most important inventions in the field of communication is television. We are learning many things from the television for example, political events, cultural events, sports news and daily news. We are learning what is happening in any part of the world. There are many programs which we are interested in. Because of the advertisements, we know many things shown on TV. And another invention in this field is video. When we want to watch a film, we can buy a video cassette and we watch. If we want to record a program from TV, we can record and we can watch that program at another time, or when we could not watch a film in movie, we buy a cassette of that film and we can watch it in the video .
In the field of science, one of the most important inventions is microscope. When the scientists do many experiments, they always use the microscope. Especially in chemistry, in Laboratories microscopes are used. When the doctors investigate the reasons of some illness, they do the experiments to find which virus cause the illness to occur in human's body. So, when they do this experiments, they have to use microscopes; otherwise they could not find out that virus .
In the filed of transportation, airplanes are one of the most important inventions. Nowadays, many people use airplanes when they travel, especially when they travel to abroad or another far countries. There are many opportunities which airplanes supply to us and we could not do many process on transportation with airplanes. If we was not able to travel far countries by airplanes we would spend much more time to go there .
There are many more inventions which we could not mention in this century. They all supply many benefits for the lives of the people. If we did not have any of these inventions, we could not do anything important in lives of human beings for now .
