 <ICLE-TR-CUK-0001.1> 
In the world, most of the countries have death penalty, especially the countries which are in the east. The countries which are in the west don't apply this punishment for a crime .
In Turkey, we have death penalty. When a person made something illegal which are spying, killing someone, trying to separate their countries, the government have rights to use capital punishment the government punishes the guilty who is punished with death penalty by the government. Instead of applying this punishment the government put the guilty in jail until die as a punishment. The government don't hang or kill the guilty .
I think the reason why there is death penalty, the people who lived at the past wanted to teach the rest of the people what would be them when they do the same crime. They wanted to warn the people .
On the other hand, the people may thing that who has right to kill someone because of his crime. In my opinion, nobody has right. Killing someone is a crime, when someone kills somebody he is guilty, but when the government apply this punishment, it's not a guilt. It means that it's unjustice .
If a human being has a brain and hearth, he can't accept this punishment. The fact that a person has brain and hearth so him may feel himself in trouble .
In spite of punishing the guilty the government should research the reason why the people commit a crime. Everybody has some kind of problems, because of this problems the people commit a crime. At this point, the role of the government is to find the solution of this problem and then according to the founded solutions the government should solve the main problem. It may cause to decrease the crime rate .
In the undeveloped, uncivilized countries, especially in the east apply death penalty to punish the guilty. The government also announces to the public to invite them to watch the guilty while he hangs on. They meet together and the guilty is hanged in front of the public. None of them say something they only watch. But what they can do. It's related with their government and their rules. Maybe that's why all the people in the world call them undeveloped and uncivilized .
Besides that the developed, civilized government in the west have human rights. According to them everybody has right to live. Nobody can interfere the other's right. If a man attracts to interfere someone's right they are first warned then they may apply some punishment. But it's not death penalty .
At the same time, there is another factor that death penalty is unacceptable which is the religious and conscience part. We all know that we are created by god and we believe god. None of us can deny this truth. Therefore nobody can judge someone because of its crime by themselves by hanging or killing them. There is no human being in the world as right to punish the people by giving capital punishment. God gives us this life and only god can take our life whenever he wants. There is nobody much more powerful than god and god doesn't give mission to punish his creation. In addition we all afraid of god, and all religious books say there is hell and heaven in the other world. In hell we will burn and in the heaven we will live in wonderful world. If it's like this I think no one can wants go hell .
To some up, god gives this life and only god takes again. Anyone who kill someone will be punished by god in the hell .
