 <ICLE-TR-CUK-0002.1> 
I won't say that committing suicide is good or bad, what I want to emphasize here is I think none should accuse such people of something that is only and only up to the person himself. It's his choice and the end is his own end not ours, everyone should be responsible for his rights and wrongs. First we should consider why a person intends to give an end to his life and how he finds the enough courage to kill himself .
If somebody is to ready to do such a terrible thing, there should be incredibly huge reasons to force him to this .
Today to survive the world is really very hard. We have to face many difficulties in life; such as inflation, natural disasters, death, etc. Sometimes we feel bold enough to get rid of these but sometimes whom it is up to some point, we don't know what to do, try every way we see as logical but when there is no result again, we begin to find solutions in different ways. Some people find to light in drugs which can be seen as different way of committing suicide .
Some take songs or films some their samples, some see the people; actors, actresses, singers who have committed suicide as brave people who have the courage that others do not have. Can you remember that how many young people tried to kill themselves because of their love and admiration for him .
What I want to emphasize is the life conditions have been driving people especially young ones into nightmare which might end in death unfortunately .
By time passes; the heavier the life conditions, the higher the suicide rate .
As in the past we tended to be much more successful in playing "Pollyanna Game" and smiling at events which drive us crazy today. Now we may get angry .
With very small things; small things are added and added; at the end like the lower part of the iceberg, we burst . you see that when one commits suicide, his friends relatives say that they were not expecting such a thing from him, they I were very surprised. As I said, what they saw was only the upper part of the iceberg which was decorated with sunshine smiles, acts; not the real suffering face of the individual .
But from what ever angle you look at the scene, you can't change the bitter fact that every person is only and only responsible for himself, what we can do at most is to feel sorry for him / her but nothing more .
We shouldn't give moral lessons after such a bad event; we can't know what will happen to us tomorrow may be we will be very miserable 5 year later; having enough strength to survive; try every possible may be illogical, rubbish way which may seem very reasonable at first .
A person is born alone, lives and crowd, but may be with feeling of loneliness and dies alone - this is the circulation of live unfortunately .
