 <ICLE-TR-KEM-0014.2> 
Why some children choose studying while others choose copying? For a long time, the statistics show. That the reason for copying is something related only a child's own psychology, but new investments indicate copying is an outcome of many other reasons about school systems that give damage to a child psychology .
When a child comes to school from its own small world, it comes across with both physical, cultural realities of the real world and is to struggle against all of them. From now then, the child has some rules to obey and a school programme to learn. Nevertheless, the world outside is so far away from the one in the school which is systematic and organized. In such a complex contrary, the child is face to face many strict problems and the scientists suggest that "the teachers must teach that the school is a place where the pupils can think freely and discover every belief and every opinion", on the other hand, teachers are far away from this suggestion. So, they have wrong opinions and teaching styles that damage a childs emotions and lead him or her even to copy .
First of all, most teachers argue that education should be applied in strict plans. It is doubtless that planning takes an important part in teaching process, but the teachers are unsuccessful in answering their pupils needs and interests because of that plans. In fact, students needs and interests must be the main function of an education system .
Nextly, education aims at teaching the students how to desalinize themselves on their own, but it does not create a suitable environment to apply this aim. In many schools, many rules have been designed and turned in to prohibition, the reasons of which are unknown. What is more, the education system does not help the students to get the main reasons of these. For example, the rules may be discussed in classrooms and be decided with the participation of students. Whereas in schools, pupils that memorize and obey the teacher's rules are accepted as hardworking, while creative, questioning pupils are blamed for their disorderness in respect and duty .
Furthermore, in schools academic success is thought as more important than the others talents. Some artistic subjects such as physical education, art and music are ignored since they are thought to lessen the academic programme. Bloom indicates " No academic subject is superior to another."
In addition to these, educating in schools must be more active and nolser. Generally, it is the teacher who speaks and who is the most active in a class. The opposite scene, the pupils involving and speaking, making noise is considered as a sign of indiscipline .
Likely, the children are motivated to compete rather then cooperation. In this competition while one wins, others lost. This leads envious and hateful emotions. So the education becomes winning rather than learning. Of course the life has some competitive ways, but life throughout is not a competition. For these reasons education must not be forgotten that competing kills the emotions of cooperation, love and friendship .
According to researches, many of the programmes and classroom activities are designed for adults logic not for a child's logic. This makes learning more difficult for such small learners .
Consequently, these faults and many others lead mental disordernesses an damage pupils characters and cause to behave wrongly such as copying. According to patterson "Instead of learning, passing class has become the purpose. Sometimes, the pupils create a study method with the help of which s/he can pass the class without learning and the others choose copying." This a moral decline in a child character. In fact, this trick and hypocritical behaviour is not found in one who has strong respect, honest and empathy. As discussed, the chance of giving these good features are in the hands of teachers and the only thing to be considered is a more efficient teaching-learning process. Faults, here copying, are not only on outcome of something, the total function of the system is to be considered .
