 <ICLE-TR-KEM-0004.2> 
What is the main concept of equality? Equality of what? Equality of everything to be able to live as a human being. In this manner, let's take sex equality .
In fact, the thing that should be considered must be human rights, human equality, not sex equality. There should not be male or female distinction. All the same, it is impassible not to see the fact of sex distinction. Think of a nation which gets power, freedom, and wealth from both males and females. Do you think the word "both" is appropriate to the meaning and reality of the sentence? Certainly not. Until 1945 there has been a half of the nation in Britain which got less than its share of power, freedom, and wealth: the female sex . <R> Despite the considerable changes in social attitudes and the feminist revolution women still have disadvantages. When we look at history it is possible to count a few women's success. Consider the Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. During the whole of the 1980's she has only had one other female Cabinet minister, and she has lasted for less than a year. In 1987 there is an election, forty one have been elected as members of Parliament, more than ever 
before, but only 6.2 per cent of seats have been holded. Look at the senior positions of power in the mast countries, none are held by women. In the Courts and Civil Service no female Permanent Secretary has taken place. Also, no women have ever been appointed as a police Chief Constable. While 25 percent of qualifying doctors are women, only 2 percent of surgeons are women. An internal report in 1988 commissioned by unions states that no women have become trade union leaders. It is also difficult to think of many successful women in industry or business. The number of them is limited: Anita Roddick, Laura Ashley. Besides, women are paid less than men. On average women earn between two thirds and three quarters of men's pay, and they earn only 93 per cent of men's hourly rate among police officers, they earn on average 87 per cent of men's wages in nursing. This difference is because of the segregation of employment by gender. Moreover, women have lower grades of a particular industry - which then became 
considered ' women's work.'
Day by day social changes occur in favour of women. There has been the Equal Opportunities Act, requiring equal pay and conditions for women, but little has changed since then .
Few employers have provided creches for young children in order to encourage women to work for them, but that situation has discouraged women from working .
In 1989 a government report says: "the greater acceptance of a woman's ring to work outside the home does not appear to have translated itself into a sense of egalitarianism in the allocation of tasks within the home." Women have still done almost all the housework, except for household repairs .
Today it is easy to see the acts on written documents, papers about women's rights which are not on practice. According to the new law of civil code, a man is no longer the head of the family. The concept of "head" has been taken away. Moreover, beating between wife and husband has punishments. If a husband beats his wife he may and up in jail. Certainly, these situations are still the same as before. A husband is still the chief of his family, whatever he says, it is accepted. In mast undeveloped areas women are beaten by their husbands. The laws are not important for them. They still do whatever they want. In Mardin, in Turkey, a woman is waiting for the day that she is going to be pelted with stones since she has given birth to her baby illegitimately. On the contrary, it is possible to see men, especially in the east of Turkey, with many second wives. They take second wife by giving too much money and by boasting, but they are not stoned .
In Turkey, in eastern regions the males have more advantages than the females. Women live under hard conditions. Most of them have no marriage card, also many of them do not have identity card. The accepted words and decisions are always of men in the family .
The males have many features on the physical point of view. A man's brain is bigger than a female. Thus, their capacity is larger than the opposite. In addition, they ' are stronger than the women according to their body mechanisms. They are also more logical than the women. The females are, on the contrary, weaker, more sensitive than the males. This may be because of family attitudes. The males are shown "strong", their parents soy "he is my son, he does EVERYTHING........." and third makes the males stranger, more decisive than the females. The males get much confidence, pride, superiority. During their life, they wont the some interest, respect from their friends, family etc .
Consequently, at all costs, there physical and breeding distinctions must not allow all the rights to the males. Human rights, human equality should be considered, not males or females rights. Perceptions are changing as a result of economic pressures. This situations encourage women to work day by day. Thus, women have greater freedom to work like men. The important view is "human equality", "human rights". Both males and females must have equal rights to live as human, to live in peace, and to be happy .
