 <ICLE-TR-KEM-0011.2> 
Most of the school children find their identity through loyalty to a particular group at school. So, children have some values and their consequences of the interaction with a specific group. And these socialization certainly affect children's psychsocial development .
It is true that new generation reinterpret the values of the society that comes from the older generation. But, older generation should warn the young against the results of changing values. Because, when the children started to go to school some values certainly change because of their interaction with different kind of social group and the children coming from different cultural background. For example, in schools young people acquire new knowledge and experience. As we are human beings of course we adopt to a new society subject to constant change and to contribute to bring about these changes. Thus, continuing adaptation is going on .
Let's discuss a viewpoint. It is obvious that schools have social functions on the young. Schools are one of the places where children and adolescents learn most about the rules, and values of the society. The children meet the other ones who are coming from different social classes, different family backgrounds, and ethnic backgrounds. Therefore, all these social backgrounds help the children to develop and establish broader and more balanced interaction with their environment. It is at school that the young people cooperate and interact with other people not because the school might expect them to, but the reason of they are being together .
There is another function of school and education as an instructor and guide for the future. It's agreed that education at schools plays an important role as a guide to the surrounding society that imposes some behavioural patterns on children. Today, it is accepted that schools are a well functioning society. At the same time, we have agreed that growth of society takes place through education. therefore, schools and other educational institutions have a defined value basis. It is true that schools plays a basic role of value and its consequences .
In addition to these, there is a balance between school community and individuals. In the community, children and the young seek their identity. But, an individual is not self-sufficient without any social group. In schools children and the young get the balance of values between their self-identity and community .
Moreover, some researchers show that schools offer different types of community. The establishment of some types of groups - classes,-teams, etc. make the young people to have different kinds of values or different kinds of behaviours. They are surely influenced by the groups more or less .
Furthermore, it is stated that schools have good opportunities for developing the young's identity by giving pupils both their own and shared experiences in the community or some groups at school. By joining a group children's identity and values are changed or developed in a good or bad way. But, a change is going to be seen .
Ericson argued that "in order to come to a sense of identity, teens must engaged in exploration. They must try out new ways of thinking and behaving." For instance, young people, explore with new ideas, new groups, new views, new style of music, etc. at the school community .
For example, when a young person participates in a special group or qlique at school the young person's attitudes changes according to the group's features. For instance, if the group members are successful at their lessons, when a lazy person joins that group, his / her behaviour is certainly affected by the features of the group, and he/she becomes a successful student at his lessons. Beside this, the new person should obey the rules that the group have. So, a group identity occurs on each group member. Henceforth, the interaction with a community at school makes the adolescents to develop new behaviors, and the values of group surely help the young person to develop his/her identity. These are obviously the values and the consequences of school interaction .
As a result, schools are the place where children and the young learn to get along with communities. Young people's relations with these social groups at school help them to understand their own attitudes and values. Besides, they certainly share their values and rules to establish a community or a social group by interacting with each other. So, schools play an important role on children's and the young's psychosocial development .
