 <ICLE-TR-KEM-0017.2> 
People are gifted with a body and some senses that are identified with a term, sprit. Broadly speaking, we must think of people-both men and women-as human being. That is to say, all males and females should be considered as one group. To speak of sex equality is to speak of a world where the ideal scenario would be both men and women to be treated equally in all matters. Although it is illegal to discriminate against people on the basis of sex, in almost all countries woman is considered and is treated as a second person in the society in respect of job, marriage and education .
As we all know, people need to work to live in good life condition. Especially today, both man and woman in a house should work so that they care of children, they can buy their needs, that is they can live. But women are not allowed to work and if they try to work, they are paid less than men as well. Women's position relative to men in employment has improved only slightly. One of the main reason is that men continue to control the positions of power and of wealth and are slow to share these with women .
In the past every society usually view a women's place as being in the home, the ration here being that men should go out to work while the women stays at home to cook, clean and look after the family. With the recent increase in divorce rates the idea of a nuclear family and as a result this view of woman has been radically challenged. As I mentioned above, for purely economical reasons women have to work and at times even left their male partner at home with the children. The rise of feminist and women's movements, has also revised society's gender stereotypes of what should constitute the male and female role .
It is now that advertised whether the employers would prefer a man or woman for a job and it is on the basis of ability, not gender. However, society still exhibits elements of gender discrimination. For example, women are less likely to progress in their careers than men are. Most managers are still male and they are generally reluctant to promote women to higher positions especially if women are considering having children. It is still believed that women are largely unmotivated by careers and are often simply biding time until they have children. Men do not have this problem. Society believe that when children come along, it will be the woman who will look after them. But there are some examples of the opposite position. There are some women who avoid giving up their career and look after their children while they continue to work. They have been able to balance having a family with a successful career .
In our country almost all women struggle for social and political acceptance. Men always claim that women's role is to cook food and keep the home running. But women should disagree and should go on their struggles. As it is known, the rate of divorced people has increased and the reasons of this this are things that I mentioned above .
In the past, women have been discriminated against in that they have often been denied basic education either. They usually were not allowed to go to school and continue their education. So that men constitute the upper class such as bank manager, professor etc. But now, it is better than in the past. Girls constitute the half of the population of universities. However, in the east, there have been still men who behave badly his wife or daughter and do not let them go to school or work. Those who are discriminated against in society would find themselves sidelined as others considered to more favoured are privileged by those around them .
Although many women still face immense difficulties and pressures in certain sectors of the community their plight is being brought to the attention of the world. We should also not forget that although women may have far to go to achieve total equality in all matters, the world has changed a lot in the past 100 years. Women have come a long way despite a seemingly long road still to travel ahead of them .
