 <ICLE-TR-KEM-0002.2> 
The concept "equality" is considered since human beings have a thought ability. What is equality? and then what is sex equality? 
In general meaning, Afşar Timuçin is stated that all of the members of society's having the same rights and responsibilities is equality. the classes among the members of a society remove the equality. Since 1789, the Universal Human Rights Declaration says that " All people are born and live equally in presence of laws". On the other hand it is difficult to believe in the presence of equality even after this declaration. It is remembered easily that George Orwell's words that "All animals are equal but some animals are more equal than the others." 
In the concept of equality, one of the major equality problems is sex equality, that is, women in the 2th cc .
In the beginning of the prehistoric times, men were busy with hunting and were women were busy with agriculture and new generation. We can call for these years matriarchal. Women grow the new generation, determined the taboos, solved and knew the secrets of nature. Therefore, women had a big respect on the nature .
After the discoveries of some tools and weapons, war became the most important way so as to survive and then men hegemony started to spread. Afterwards, women were thought like a tool to work and to keep the generation .
When we examine carefully Greek philosophers, there is no rebellion thought. For instance, Pythagore said that "The harmony, light and men are created by a good element; the caos, darkness and women are created by a bad element." Besides, Hippocrate also said that "Women are men's servant."
In religious thoughts, we can also notice the weakness and independence of women to men. The priests emphasized that women corrupted men forever and the mistress of the devil .
As it is seen clearly women do not have a nice history, in fact, human beings' history. After all these information about women history, it is noticed that there is always a hegemony and the main of this hegemony is the power to survive .
Women come with their unimportance in nature, the weakness of their physical power and not being able to put one's foot down until this century, 21th cc .
In 21th cc, the system of economy does not give permission any human rights. Human beings are still under money control and, so women are still under male control, too. It interacts women, children and life. Human beings are slave against money in companies, factories etc. and women are still in the kitchen, in the house with their babies. There is also a different problem after all history in this century. The values, the criterions are determined by men. Women try to gain these main values and criterions. But, the women conscious is waking up day by day .
In sum up, there are something different except the presence of men and women in life that changes the fate of the human beings. So, in fact, no one has any rights, there is no equality in anywhere. Before the equality war between men and women, it is necessary to gain, provide the human rights exactly in everywhere. Afterwards, coming from complete to part is appropriate for human beings. It is possible to remove the inequality between the two sexes. The two sexes have important roles and responsibilities against this problem .
Improving the life standards, education and the level of conscious can make the situation change and the important thing is to be together against the problems, both men and women. As P. Leroux said "I do not know if I will be alive when equality and judgement are in life, or not .
