 <ICLE-TR-KEM-0012.2> 
Media is everywhere in our daily life. As we know, it observes and watches everything so much that we have started to feel that media shouldn't interfere in everything for a number of reasons from now on .
First, media should not interfere in the people's private life so much. I think that it is not right for them to make the news, I mean, to tell some not true news over and over. For example; they put so much news on TV channels about Çağla Şikel that now we can say she may be in hesitation to go out, thinking the possibility that they can make some more wrong news. Besides, media exaggerates everything. For istance; they talked and wrote so many things about Derya Tuna that she was seen at stage in the end. Maybe it was because of the fact that they talked too highly of her and she tried to be a solist and she was about to be assassinated at her very first night. I think, it is again due to media. If they hadn't talked so highly of her to be a singer at stage, she wouldn't have tried it in such a decollate dress. Let's think about Hülya Avşar's marriage. They again talked and wrote so many things about her, her to come on the verge of a divorce. Indeed, such kind of things shouldn't interest in us .
However, we are curious about people's, especially famous people's, lives as a nation. OK, we want to learn about them, but not wrong news, of course the true ones .
Media spend so much money to observe and catch some news about models that in my opinion it is very useless. The money used for that can be spends for very useful activities in Turkey or media can produce more cultivated and qualified programmes with that money. Media shouldn't interfere in where and with whom the models go at night or which artist get a well and cross with which artist, or what they wear whether they go out naked or with long, very long dresses, what is their hair style or whether they have any operation or not ... and so on. Yes, these shouldn't interest the people, I mean us. But unfortunately media interfere in such kind of things and we read or watch on TV, hear these in a way. For another example; we have learnt that Süreyya Ayhan became the winner athletics and it certainly made us be proud of her. But, later we heard accidentally when we turned on TV that she was living something with her coach, she had a close relationship with him, which is really not interested in terms of us. As you see media interferes in the people's life so much. So, there is not a thing, like private life for the people anymore .
Second, I believe that it is not true for media to make some news about the secret subjects of a government. I think that special topics for a government should not leak out by media. If they are important subjects for all the people who live in a country they should not be known by the other countries. Yes, if media learns and proclaims them, everybody learns it that might not be a good thing for the people who live in the borders of that country. As far as I remember, there was some important news about Bülent Ersoy and with its leaking out, she and Hüsamettin Özkan got crossed with each other. If something should be kept secret, they should be done so, not be leaked out my Media. For example, prime minister threw the file and this made Turkey be poor 50 percent. If media didn't interfere in it and announce it just afterward of the event, perhaps Turkey wouldn't have lived so many difficult days .
Last of all, Media affects the people's thinking power. The people always watching the wrong or groundless news begin thinking that the ones making this news should be right because they suppose that we see and hear the same things all the time. That's why there might be possibility of its correctness. Also, hearing this news permanently people get far from the real world. What I mean is that they have lack of information about the real life by Media's unfounded news. On the other hand, Media has a big role on our family structure. The people living in a house from a child at the age of 7 to a grandfather at his 70's have been affected by the programmes of TV. So, the producers should be very careful while making the films, magazine, sport, cartoons and the other programmes. Otherwise they can cause us to lose some of our values. The young are interested in the characters on TV of affected by a politician's speech or attitudes. So Media should give work well and carefully .
In short, Media shouldn't interfere in everything so much for these reasons .
