 <ICLE-TR-KEM-0003.2> 
Today most of the people in Turkey claim that women and men are equal in every part of the life, and those people try to give a lot of classic examples to prove their idea. They state that unlike today's women, the women in the past could not drive a car or own a job. Nearly all of the women in the past would just sit at home, do housework and look after their children the whole day. Only their husbands would go to work, earn money and they would never take care of housework. This may be correct when those people compare the conditions in the past and at present. Fortunately, the women and men have more equal rights now; on the other hand, I do not think that there is a full sexual equality and sex discrimination still exists everywhere in Turkey .
One of our main arguments against those people who say there is an exact sex equality in Turkey is about sex discrimination in the workplace now. It was showed that in 1972, it was difficult for women to enter various professions. For example; only 9.3 % of doctors and dentists were women, only 4 % of all lawyers and judges were female, and only 13 % of all medical students were women but, there is no doubt that all of the women have the ability to work in any job like men. Until about a year ago, for instance; nealy all of the people in Adana could not imagine a female bus driver but now there is a beautiful woman who is driving a bus maybe more safely than men. First, everybody criticised that woman for her job. Some of the people were even afraid of getting on bus because it was being driven by a woman but now most of them are accustomed to this idea. this showes us that women can be succesful in any areas of employment as much as men .
Not only the discrimination exists in workplace but it also exists in some part of social life. For example; the people in Turkey believe that women can never play football or men can never knit up. I thorougly disapprove of this belief. We already know some football teams which consist of just female players, and we have also seen that there are very skillful men who is knitting or sewing. Most of the people have bad attitude towards those men and women. Maybe, people's wrong attitude can be based only on tradition because it is certain that this is not based on any law of nature .
Another sexual unequality occurs in the house between wife and husband. Turkish society traditionally sees women primarily as childraisers and homeworker while men is the only person in the family who must work outside and support their families with their incomes. Therefore women's working outside is still a fault for most of the people. I am in total disagreement with this idea. Women can achieve to own a job and be a mother at the same. It is true, of course, that a women's bialogical function requires her to remain at home for some time before and after a child is born. This is a fact of life. Only women can bear children . However; as I claimed that before, this does not necessarily mean that the women has to raise the children and manage the house while the husband work outside the home. No law of nature forces people to accept these roles. A woman has the right to choose between a career as a full-time mother and housewife and a career outside home like man or she can combine the two careers if her 
husband helps her at home. At this point, a woman and a man never have the same rights if both of them are working outside. Let's think about a typical Turkish family, the husbands always complain that their wives does not hve time to do housework, for instance; they say that when they come home they wish to find the dinner made, their shirt ironed etc. but they can never think to share the housework with his wife. A man and a woman come their house from work at the same time. The man wears his slippers and piyjamas, then he lies on the sofa watching TV and begins to relax at the end of a tiring day, on the other hand; the woman must always be fast, in other words; she must be the"super mother". She must get the dinner ready on time because the children is about to come from the school. After dinner, she must wash the dishes. After that, she must start to do ironing. That night never comes to an end. The woman continiously does homework. If the man assisted her wife, there would not be any problem any more 
in my opinion .
That is why I believe that there is still a lack of sex equlity in Turkey. The attitudes toward the roles of men and women can be more flexible so people must change their attitudes towards both men and women in society and learn the it is possible for women and men to work or do any kind of job immediately .
