 <ICLE-TR-MER-0002.3> 
Most student's dream in high school is to enter a university. Because they want to have both theoretical and practical knowledge that is necessary for their job and they want to be ready for the life. Therefore students study harder pass the exam and enter the university. Their dream comes true. But, in fact they aren't aware that they will have many problems which need to be dealt with. They see that university education or the university life in their mind is only an utopian. I want to explain it from two aspects. Firstly most university degrees give only theoretical knowledge. Secondly students satisfy the knowledge that is given. They don't improve themselves .
From the theoretical aspect of the problem, I can argue that most university degrees stock the knowledge in student's mind. Before students comprehend and categorize, them in their mind new one is given theoretically. Students memorize don't know how to practice knowledge that is given them at the university. Students are given unnecessary knowledge and directed to memorize them rather than learn. As a result newly learned things are located in the short memory and then they fly away. Therefore, this situation constitutes an insufficient background of knowledge for the university education. For that reason there are people who know everything about their job but don't show in practice their knowledge. In order to prevent students from learning something. Temporarily, they should be taken away from memorizing unless its application is really needed. The more they memorize, the more time they waste. Also, the more they memorize, the less they learn new things permanently. As they can not learn things easily, 
their aim becomes just studying for the exams and getting good marks. I think this must be the last goal of the educational system. So, there should be another ways of making lessons more attractive and easily understandable. In order to achieve this, students should be given a chance to put into practice what they learn .
The second aspect is that students are satisfied with what they learn. Students take the knowledge that is given by their teacher in their school and they don't add new things their knowledge. It is enough for them. They don't make research. They do not think to expand their knowledge on that subject. They do not even look for other books. A student model which makes research and improve him/herself from different aspects is not seen. They only listen, take notes and memorize them for the exam and then forget that notes. The result is obvious. The students graduate with insufficient knowledge. When they enter working life, they suffer because they are not equipped with enough knowledge to deal with problems .
Consequently most university degrees are theoretical and do not prepare students for the real world as education in universities is inadequate for real life and students do find themselves with the problems which they can't overcome. I think that an individual graduated from a university should be self-reliant, creative, researcher and civilized to feel ready, isn't he?	
