 <ICLE-TR-MER-0006.3> 
Universities, as we all know, are the intuitions that supply a power of human, in many fields, to the society that they live in. A university student has the chance to learn about his or her personal development, environment, society they live in. In universities, there are many social activities for students that they can enjoy in their free time. Also psychological field help students to overcome their problems whenever they want. Beside, this institution help students to see what he wants to see or what he wants to do. But, all the while, many of us think that university degrees are theoretical and do not preparing students to the real life . Therefore they are of little value. If so, what can be done? Both as students and teachers. In my opinion, university is the place or institution that has pink clouds covering it, as real life requires many responsibilities. Being a student gives us the feeling that you don't need to search for something, you will have to teach. I can say that, as a student, we don't 
like searching for something or trying to know, just somebody will give the order and then we try to learn about it or search for it. So if a graduated university student doesn't have any or enough knowledge about everything, this not only the fault of the system but also the students. For me there is no lesson that is useful to the student. All the informations are, even the minor ones that are seen unimportant, are the chains of each other. Maybe the problem is the way we teach a lesson. It's the teachers turn to make the lesson funny or boring! I want to give example from myself: in prep class I had a listening&speaking lesson. In high school almost most of us did not have any speaking activity. Grammar was the only skill that we deal with, but in my prep and first year this lesson was the most interesting lesson for me. I was finding some documents from internet and presenting them. The teacher didn't want me to speak unvoluntarily, she just give me a chance to speak and i have tried to use it in the way that is beneficial me now and in the future. Beside developing my speaking skill i have learned how to control my anger in front of the people in the class. Also i have learned many useful and interesting things from the documents that I searched from internet. İ will be an English language teacher but i do not want to be a typical one-giving a lecture, quizzing. İ want to teach my students maybe funny, interesting or useful thing about the language they learn. So this lesson is related with real life, I think. İ also want to give an example from my second year: Language Acquisition lesson seemed to me a boring lesson but time passed and İ began to understand the beneficial point of this lesson. It helped me to understand how the language is acquired by new born babies and adults. I have to little nephew and İ can see their language development by the help of this lesson. I can say the same thing for the other lessons: Literature and Culture helps me to understand or learn about the people whose language I'm learning and so on... Shortly, I don't think that the university lessons have little value. You may not use it tomorrow but there will be a time to use it. These lessons are related with people and I will be a teacher, means I will be with people. University teaches me to be able to think from other perspective, to look from other people's side. The way of life and the lessons complete each other and this is what makes university beneficial...
