 <ICLE-TR-MER-0001.3> 
Although, there is a thought that most university degrees are theoretical and do not prepare students for the real world, we shouldn't ignore the advantages of these degrees .
There is a common belief that universities are not the place where students can benefit from them and be prepared for the real life. Some people even think that it is a waste of time. So, instead of studying for many years in universities, having a job after high school and beginning to work, gain his or her own money is more advantageous. Thus, people earn their living in this way. As a result, they become producer rather than consumer and they don't have to be dependent especially in terms of money on their family .
On the other hand, we must take this fact into consideration that without any education, without any background knowledge, without any background knowledge, without any theoretical information, we can't reach a fruitful conclusion. I mean being well-educated makes you more qualified and more superior one. In other words, these features differentiate you from other people. Especially, if there is a close correlation between your department in the university and your occupation, your job that you will have in the future, at that time, your university degree can work. In other words, even if most university degrees are theoretical, you can transfer these theoric information into your job. For example, before trying to write this essay, I asked some of my friends who are studying at Translation Department about this issue and they say that they are much more different from the new beginners. They are now good at translation than before beginning to university. Some people may think that it is possible or easy to translate any passage or text if you have a dictionary, but the situation is not the same they think, I believe. Because they learn and study not only to translate with only a dictionary but also different ways and styles of translating any passage. They learn some approaches, techniques and methods to do this job perfectly and professionally as far as they can. They learn professional names, I mean people who are known as a leader for this job and try to follow these ways while dealing with their studies .
A student should think and try to draw conclusions on whichever lesson he is taking. If the student is interested in the subject he will as himself ' what is the point of this lesson ' and how can I use this knowledge to make it valuable, but if he is not interested in the field he will think that the lessons have even no value. He will not ask the questions , that I have mentioned above, to himself and he will find the lessons unpurposeful .
I believe even theoretical lessons have a purpose and value. The most important point is to find how we can use the knowledge in our life to make it valuable. If you are interested in the field drawing conclusions and seeing the purpose of the lessons will not be hard for you, but you are not interested it will probably turn into a hell studying for the lesson and thinking on them. What I am trying tom say it is in our hands to make a knowledge valuable or not. We just need to make it clear: interested or not? Furthermore, these degrees provide you higher status and more money. As a result, I believe that nothing is unnecessary to get university degree .
