 <ICLE-TR-MER-0011.3> 
How many percent of university degrees don't face to the difficulties at first years when they begin to work in our country. This proportion may be under percent of % 50. I think that , indeed, there are many reason of this situation but the most important reason, for me, is theoretical education in the universities. Most university degrees are theoretical and do not prepare students for the real life; they are therefore not little value .
Many students are to struggle with difficulties in their business at first years life, as great part of education is theoretical. Hard conditions they face and problems require to have different solutions or alternatives depend on practise in real life. On the one hand, informations are, learnt in universities are theoretical, on the other hand, necessities have to be done in real life practical, so many students don't have knowledge of what they do and how can they do something, while they work. As a educator or since we will be a teacher, most probability, we would be a member of this group that aren't sure of what they should do if not we could not improve ourselves individually in our field .
In my opinion the main reason of theoretical education is that many subjects/ information whether is not usefull or not try to be learnt in a short time. Our books are consists of many theoretical information that we won't use or we can not use so we learn that only by memory instead of knowing totally what is it .
And also we learn all not necassary subject for the exam. That we study some subject each time is sign of theoretical education, isn't it? If we will learn only usefull or necessary things are used in our life, information would be more permanent in students' mind. In addition to this memorization decreases power of imagination, creativity; therefore many students can't produce solution against to the problem or they can't challenge to the difficult situation .
Another reason of theoretical education, teachers do not conform or practise what they said in the classroom. For example; teacher explain what is the meaning of democrasy. Although she or he explain concept of democrasy very well, she or he does not practise this subject in the classroom. For instance she or he does not behavior students equally while evaluating or giving permission to speak in the classroom. That's they are not good model for students .
Another striking dimension way of this situation is job advertisement . ''Experienced' ' word attract our attention. Almost employment agencies want experienced workers. It means that to be well-qualified teachers, engineers, ext. you need to work few years at the begining. We face to this fact that is paid insufficient in every part of the real life .
I don't know why we tend to this method of education - may be it is more simpler than others - but I know very well that theoretical education cause to our life more difficult. Had not been theoretical education almost every university degrees bad experience would not have that cause to decreases their self-confident in their first years of business life .
