 <ICLE-TR-MER-0005.3> 
In our days in the republic of Turkey nearly in the all universities the education is theorical , not practical . I agree that it is not useful for the students , but it is harmful. The universities in Turkey I think have not got such a problem to educate the major and perfect students who will be teachers doctors and engineers etc...
For many years Turkey has such a dilemma that there are not professional people do their jobs . Unfortunately that has not been changed from the first years of republic until today . We can say the condition hasn't gone to be better, it has gone to be worse . For example the old teachers we see can teach and educate the children better than the new teachers. It is also same in the other occupations. In Turkey the main reason of the problems, I think in every parts of their life they face to exams from elementary school until owing a job , even after get the job. The students have just one problem to pass the exam . It is not so important whether you understand the lesson or the subject , but it is important to get a high mark . If you get a high mark in the exam you are good and successful . No one would ask how do you get this mark , by studying hard or cheating . Unfortunately this begin from the first years family till the university life . As a result of that we can see many students 
that have not got any experience from the life and school . In the first years of elementary school until secondary school nearly every week teacher make a quiz and give points to this. And after that the exams term starts and it does not end until the end of the life . The worst and the most terrific one is the University Entrance Exam . The students cannot think anything except that exam . That exam is life , it is everything for the students . Students just concentrate on that exam and the famillies' psychological pressure make the students a troll . Students cannot think , forget how to enjoy the life and these students come to university . That students think university is everything it is heaven , it is the place of the most intelligent and successful people. But after they come and start attend the lessons the condition changes . Most of the things they have seen before was exaggerated .they see that the logic in the university is same as in high school memorize and pass the lesson. That is the result of the education system of Turkey . Memorize everything , even if you can not understand , memorize and pass it. If you pass there is no problem it means that you are successful . The teachers in the universities have been educated in the same teaching system . I think the education that students theorical cannot be useful for us and for our future life . Everyone , except authorities can see the information we get is just theorical , not practical . Many of the instructor want from the students do the things that he can pass the lesson , but a minority part of the teachers want from the students to do the things that will be useful for his future life. As the universities give a theorical and useless education to the students , now there are not many students that see the university as the home of teaching science and education . Most of the students we see the university as the place of enjoying life , recreating from night until morning . And the education system of Turkey correct these ideas . And 
another thing that make universities a place far from the education is the low economical support . In most parts of the world the economic support is increasing year by year , but in Turkey this support is decreasing year by year , not increasing . In such conditions ' ' poor materials , poor teachers etc..' ' the education cannot be done correctly and detailly . For a good and quality education the people who teach must be scarified in their economical and cultural and political conditions , but we cannot say these things in Turkey .
Education is the most important thing for the future of a civilization and universities are the place to give the most effective and scarifying education because they prepare people for the life . Because of that people expect many things from the universities , the universities have to reply these expectations . If universities do not reply , the opinions of people change and not many of the people see universities home of education even if there are popular professors and teachers who are qualified . And the worst thing as the universities cannot give the education that prepare people for the life , the people who graduate from the universities cannot be successful in their jobs and that makes unhappy people and a country that have no hopes from future .
FAHRETTİN ARI
