 <ICLE-TR-MER-0004.3> 
Most university degrees are theoretical and do not prepare students for the real world. Instead of giving importance to create qualified and well-educated people for the society, meaningfull and useful ways are being ignored. So there are a lot brains which are ossify. Therefore universities are all little value. According to me it has three main reasons for this argument .
The first one is lack of practice. University teachers give information to the students theoretically and the students do generally not use these informations in their daily life. In other word, we can not use our knowledge in long term memory, how a person can be ready to a job after finishing a university. Another thing that I want to mention about is our school experience. I do not think everyone take it serious and complete it perfectly, also nobody do training. The trainings in the universities are generally theoretical. Just the students do is, to make the teachers sign on their training papers. Here you can ask me what can be done if training is not complete. However there is bad result of it that university creates people who are decorated with theoretical knowledge and who has not got practical, so they have many problems in their lives .
Since they become inexperienced people, they can not solve any problems even it's hard or not. For example, we have school experience at second and fourth class. If I can not do my school experience perfectly, I would not know how I can behave my students in different conditions or how I can give answers to their questions. If I can not give answers to their questions truly, they could not appreciate with me. They think about me as a worthless teacher. Just reading or studying our lessons, we can not be perfect teachers and we can not produce good alternatives to every bad condition. I want to add here that, university teachers try to make the students responsible and experienced. While doing their school experiences, the students should be under control .
I want to give another example, as all you know managers are known as well-informed people and if they do not find solutions to the problems, they lose their value on the society. And not to bring up unsuccessful people, 
The second one is not given importance to the vitality. Everyone can forget what they hear from the teacher, video or tape recorder, but they ever and never forget what they see and then their information goes their short term memory. So they are not a useful knowledge for us in the long term. As we understand, visually is not given importance in universities. Information is given theoretically and the students can not use their knowledge in the real world. For example, in history department teachers only teach their lessons routinely without any visual aids. So the students are bored and can not understand the lesson. Instead of teaching lessons traditionally, some tours can be prepared to some historical places and this can be a good step for the students in their later jobs. And I am sure they will understand the lesson here better than being at school .
Like history, visually is important for civil engineering department. They can be taken to the dam. When the university finishes, they can build dam easily .
For us, while teaching our lessons we can show the students cards, pictures, or vivid objects. For example, we can bring fruits to the class as we teaching fruits (example: grape).so the students understand the topic easily. Since there is not a traditional material, the lesson will not be monotonous and boring. Because of drawing students' attention to the subject, it will be enjoyable too. However most university teachers do not prepare like this material since the most important thing for them is teaching their lessons. It is real that the students can become more successful thanks to the visually at their lessons .
The last but the most important thing is that, university degrees do not create active human beings. In most universities most lessons are teacher centered. Just the teachers are speaking and acting, but it should not like that. It should be mostly student centered to produce active generations. After the university, the students should be ready for social life. They can speak to a group of people in a comfortable way. When we look at from another perspective and as far as I notice, the teachers do not try to arouse the students' curiosity. I mean that instead of giving messages directly and teaching lessons on course books, the teachers should follow different ways. He / She wants students research some topics about lessons or teacher can want students to go some places to gain data etc... So, that will be more flexible, more curious and they will enjoy while searching something. These activities encourage students. The students believe in themselves .
According to me, the teachers should be guiders and the students should be actors. If both of them were responsible for their roles, there couldn't be any problems. We will see that university degrees will create well-educated people who can produce solutions at every manner .
As new growing society, we need creative, determined, courageous, successful people to be successful society. So we always try to develop our university degrees in high qualification. This should be our main torch while going on our ways .
