 <ICLE-TR-MER-0003.3> 
At most universities, there is a problematic issue that whether the courses given are sufficient enough to prepare a student to real world . ' How much value does the education carry out in the universities, or are they only theoretical ' are the questions, which should be argued on it .
We cannot totally claim that all of lessons are theoretical, so what is acquired by students do not have any importance. However, most of them really have little necessity to use in our daily life. In addition, theoretical lessons are always come boring and uninteresting for students. Therefore, they do not thoroughly pay their attention in that kind of course. As they engage in more abstract subjects, most importantly they do not apply their knowledge in real situations and conditions; they cannot keep them in their mind in long term. Also, the lecturer covers these lessons ignorantly; they do not give any effort to make lessons more bearable visa versa more unbearable. These situations lead decreasing the value, importance of the lessons, which are theoretical. Even if they include crucial matters, it can be neglected by students. So what's the use? What is the main aim of having theoretical lessons if it will not carry out any value in the future for students? In Turkey, we can give the examples of 
History and Turkish lessons given compulsory in the first year of university education in all departments. The first year university students, already had these courses from the beginning of their school life, expect something different when they take these courses. However when they have observed no difference between the high school and university teaching style, they are a bit disappointed and I think these courses loose their importance for the young. I agree the idea that these course itself theoretical and what can be done for them are limited. However, when searched on it for a while, we can find many different activities to use in that lessons, For ex; in History lessons, we might get the students to find information on a particular subject and find historical clothes related to the subject. Then they will perform it in the class as a role-playing activity. This activity will help the students understand the subject better, enjoy in the classroom and benefit from this information in any condition, as the subject is more permanent and clearer for them then .
On the other hand, as I mentioned before I cannot completely accept that they are not beneficial for human being. These courses can provide on individual to improve himself personally. Having even little information on every subject, help a person to think about and comment on different issues more critically. These people's point of view differs from others as they don't look at issues from a borrow perspective. The mother here is, if these theoretical lesson may play a big role in a person's life, why don't we give an extra effort to get them realize the importance of these courses. Why always it is said "these are rule on structure you have to learn it "in the only solution for the students. For every course, this is a well-know criterion any more memorization never means learning. Real learning occurs only by the means of experiencing. Experiencing a subject is ten times better for a person than memorizing it. It is not only for courses even in every life conditions. For that reasons, we shouldn't make 
our students to memorize what is written on the books especially in theoretical lessons if we really want to help them .
When we look at other sight, we can find lessons, which really prepare students to real life at universities. For ex; in Education Faculty, there is a school-experiencing course. As the teacher candidates involve in a real situation there, as they mainly interact with real student, objects, conditions, they can understand the situation better and apply what they learned more easily. When time passes, students can feel more comfortable and self-confident. After a while, they become experienced, and will be sure that they can do their job without fear .
As a conclusion, theoretical lessons shouldn't be considered less important than actually they are. If they are lectured, taught in a way that students can understand, then there will be no problem for both students and teachers. Also these lessons will gain their real value in the real life 
