 <ICLE-TR-MER-0026.3> 
As we can understand from the name of the "university" which comes from the root of "universe" universities are places in which universal or in other words main knowledge are taught. We learn many things at universities that we need throughout our lives in addition to the theoretical knowledge about our departments. However, these universal places can not give us everything. There are three basic, traditional functional universities; giving theoretical knowledge about our jobs in the future, providing to grasp our mental and creative skills and teaching us to prepare ourselves to life .
First of all, as it is known all universities main function is giving theoretical knowledge about our jobs that we are going to do in the future. In my opinion being theoretical means giving the needed knowledge about a specific department and allowing pupils to apply the learned information when we come to the question about universities' valves on are hand it is true that some university degrees are of very little valve but it is not because their being too theoretical on the contrary it is because their not being able to give theoretical knowledge. But on the other hand the number of such degrees are limited so most university so most university degrees are theoretical which is a must to be a university .
Secondly, all universities in the world - so in our country - provide us to group our mental and creative skills. We can look this in two perspectives. One of them is again theoretical perspective, the other one is social perspective. There is learning research skills on the care of the theoretical perspective of the mental and creative skills. One of the most significant ability that are developed in universities is research skill. At first hand we are taught how to make an investigation on a specific topic. Then we find a topic and make our researches in the may that are taught to us. And then at the last year of our university education life we prepare a thesis which means that me make a very detailed investigation. Most universities follow this order about making research while teaching their theoretical field knowledge. If you take making investigation seriously during your university education life, it becomes a lifestyle to you. You apply your ability on making research to all parts in your life 
which makes you a real researcher. And think that is the most important thing and makes people become successful throughout their lives. Also universities social sides provide us to group our mental and creative skills. Most universities submit many social activities on a vest scale. And you participate one or more than one of them actively according to your ability which makes you socially group your mental and creative skills .
The third aim of universities is to teach students to prepare themselves to life. It is true that most universities do not prepare students for the real world because that is impossible. However, universities teach pupils to prepare themselves to their lives. This highest education schools enable us to live long enough to know our responsibilities as a person. A person himself learns what life means and prepare himself the difficulties that he will be confronted with. Universities, friends in fact even families can not prepare us to the real world. As I said before they only teach how to do it. So I don't think that most universities are of very little valve. Real world can only be learned by experience and universities teach us to stay on our feet and trust ourselves by our knowledge and skills .
In conclusion I can say that we cannot limit education of real world with universities. As the American pedagogist John Dewey said, "Education is something which is learned by experience and education of real world is everywhere".
