 <ICLE-PA-GF-0022.1> 
What should a Government do for a country to become Successfull
Government is the main part of country. It pay important role for the betterment and succesfull for country. Becase with out Govt a country not run. For this purpose Government want to pay important role for the country .
If a Got want: If a Govt want to same work do for the successfull country. There are some problems in our country. If a Govt illiminat the concept of these problems. These problems are given below .
1. Jop opportunity .
2. Protection to investors 
3. Subsidy provided on daily product 
4. Illuminate the concept of corruption
5. Long term project .
6. Equal part of Govt and public 
7. Equality in eye of Law .
8. Control of inflation 
9. Reduce Taxes .
10. Liminatation of politions .
11. Free education system 
12. Internship programe
13. Aware the public to Govt planning 
14. Scure to public from Terrorism .
15. Govt adopt Democracy .
Jop opportunity :
Jop opportunity consider to main problem of a country. If a Govt want to take the successful country .
Then the Govt should take the better behavior for all people in the jop opportunity 
Equal eye for all the people. Jop is not for a particular person but all the poor and rich are equal in the matter of Jop .
Subsidy provided on daily Product
Govt also do for a country to become successful If Govt take the subsidy provided. For example
1 Ghee 
2 Sugar
3 wheat
4 Oil and etc
Protection to investors
Protection to investors are also pay to important role for the betterment of a country .
Illiminate the Concept of Corruption:
It is the main Problem. Who create the disturbance betterment for a country .
If a Govt want to successful country then He Illiminate the concept of corruption .
Long term Project:
Long term project is also neccesry for the betterment of a country .
Equal Part of a Govt and Public:
Equal part of Govt and Public mean that if a Govt Decision making then public also take part to decision making and showmen the agree and disagree of public .
Equality in eye of Law:
Equality in eye of law is a main issue. Law is not for a particular person. Butt all the society. Not respect of poor or rich person. It is equal for the society .
Control of inflation
Control of inflation is also important for a successful country .
Reduce Taxes:
Every country is based on his taxes system that if the taxestion system is good in country. Then tex system also help for the betterment of a country .
Limitation of Politions .
It is the main head. If a Govt want to development a country then he take limitation of politions. Not cota for any field .
Free education system:
Govt should take free education system not for back word area but in all the country .
Internship Programe:1$	Internship programe also neccessory for development a country 
Aware the Public to Govt Planning
Aware the public to Govt planning. Any person does not stole the Govt Planning b/c this is the public property .
Scure to Public from Terrorism:
Scure to Public from Terrorism is a main issue to the disturbance for a development country. Govt take the safty to public property .
Success to Public from Terrorism:
Govt adopt Democracy:
Govt adopt Democracy. No person said that the Govt is my property. Or hand make .
All the people have right on Govt. if is not a particular person.