 <ICLE-PA-GF-0017.1> 
Men and women are two wheels of the carriage of life .
Their inter connected relation . 
Napoleon's quotation .
Freud's point of view .
Islamic point of view .
Woman is more tolerant than man .
Women and Men are two wheels of the carriage of life. Hence, woman is the man's mate. Man works to earn for his wife and children. He has to remain out of his house for a long time. He cannot spare much time to look after his children because of over work to live in the present age of inflation. It is the house wife who has to maintain all the household affairs, like cooking, laundry, cleanliness, looking after her children etc. She is to be a good household administrator, a good mother, and a good wife. As such, her position in home is more important than man. Women must be well educated so that they bring up their children in a good manner. Beyond doubt, educated good mothers would mean an educated good generation .
Women are better parents than men because a woman can look after her children in a better way than man. She know how to teach her. She takes care of her children because she can easily feel the condition of her children. Napoleon once well said, <*> . It is true, for almost all great men had great mothers and according to Freud, the lap of a mother is the first school of a child, because the mould of the mind of a child is prepared at the age of three or six years. As such the first and most important education of children is in the lap of a mother. It is scientifically proved that a child in a mother's womb can hear with in five months, so a mother can easily teach and bring up a child as compare to father. A good mother means a good progeny and a bad one would bring up such children as would be nuisance to family as well as society. Hence women carry more importance than men in house. But they must be well educated . 
In Islamic point of view it is her sacred duty to produce children and look after them. Not only this but she has also to build a nation of morally sound people. She she plays the role of a teacher for her children. The Holy Prophet has said <*> . 
This line shows that women are better parents than men. A mother wake up on a single cry from her child and understands what does he or she wants when her child is in trouble she cannot sleep at night. She wakes for the treatment of her child. She knows better the psychology of her children than man. She is soft and kind hearted instead of man. So children are attached to her. She can easily entertain / allure them. In childhood almost all the necessities of children are accomplished by their mother so they are associated to mother . 
According to Islamic point of view, it is the duty of man to earn money for his wife and children and a woman should look after her house, children, and husband. A man can does economical work in a better way and a woman does household work in a better way. She has enough time to care and look after her children than man. So women are better parents than men.