 <ICLE-PA-GF-0011.1> 

Man is a social animal. From his birth to death he has to deal with society to which he belong. In our modern world barter system is now extinct and money is used as a currency for shopping and trading. Any one who wants to shop something or trade should have money. In this way money is the basic necessity of modern man to fulfill all his desires weather big or small . 
People work from 8-5 to earn money so that they can live better by having bread for their families and themselves. It is will of God that he gave someone in large quantity and some in short. There are rich and poor in every society, thus it creates a class difference and it is the starting point from where the evil side of money got its share . 
The rich used money and poor for their profit and advantages. When someone is out of money and he needs money desperately then he can do every thing for this purpose, this is the way rich people used poor .
And also it creates the feelings of hatred among poor for rich people which is very harmful for the society because some fanatic poor kills or robs rich to get money. In this way rich also avoid the poor because of their evil intention. And thus class difference widen more. In this way the poor people can be used by anyone by just giving small amount of money because the poor have strong tempt for money. In fact some terrorist organization also keep in mind this fact and used young poor people for terrorism .
Their aim is to manipulate society, destablize the government and want their demands fulfill by harassing innocent civilians . 
This discussion proves that money is the root of all evil but we should also know the cause which make money evil. And the cause are many like inflation, over population and unemployment are the major causes of evil happening. We should overcome these causes if we want to stop the evil products manufactured due to these raw materials . 
Government should take proper steps to make people aware of the over population and the disadvantages of the over population. They should implement birth control policy and implement tax on more than the prescribed deadline. This will help us to share our resources in better way . 2ndly unemployment is the major cause of the evil happenings on the name of money . 1st government should take steps to regularize the education system and induct more students in the technical studies rather than humanities. This will boost the industrial sector and will create more opportunities for the young technical people . 
By overcoming these causes we would be able to wipe out the evil side of money, because when there will be fair distribution of wealth in all classes of society no one would have other's share . 
At the end we came to know that there are factors behind the evil side of the money which make money the root of all evil. So we should also minimize those factors for the peaceful progress of society and country.