 <ICLE-PA-GF-0021.1> 
63 years is a sufficient period for any nation to take a large stock of its achievements Pakistan's birth in 1947 was tumultuous as entailed colosal problems of survival. Pakistan has been facing serious problems of both Internal and external security . 63 years has been past but Pakistan is still in the list of under developet third word countries .
Now a days Pakistan is facing so many problems. We have outdated feudal system, high illiteracy rate, rapid increase in population, inflation rate, rising tide of crime, shortage of electricity, unemployment worse political system, military rule and unstable civilian Government poverty, Terrorism, Failure of democracy, worse condition of justice and rule of law, Inadequate education system etc .
If we are taking about the illiteracy rate in Pakistan we know that 60 to 70% of people are completely illiterate in Pakistan illiterate people can not gain knowledge. They can not know their rights and duties in their society. They can not wisely elect their representatives Due to high illiteracy rate in our country as a whole can not progress illiteracy is a greatest evil of our society .
Second problem is inadequate education system our education system has many faults. Our education system is highly fragmented into various categories i-e Urdu medium and English medium government and private system. We have substandard and untraind teachers. Our education system is divorced from a day to day problems, a Bars of school, Colleges, Universities are very low. In our education we have no quality education, no techniqual system, worse examination system etc. It is a sade fact that our education system, what ever it is, is not being operated properly. That is why our education system start moving towards its downfall. The educated people do not understand our social and economical problems most of the student in our school and colleges can not write correctly, speak coherently and discuss logically our social, economical and political problems .
Our population is another problem of Pakistan. Population has steadily increased over the years and no amount of family planning activits by any government has help curb this problem. The main reason for this fact that family planning has never been taken as mission due to fear of Religious, social and cultural factors and the result is that Pakistan face this problem of over population and major consequence of increasing population is poverty .
Failure of democracy is another problem of Pakistan. Democracy fail due to high illiteracy rate, low awarness of people, Martial law etc. The country has alternative between a long period of military rule and unstable government control by elite class .
Globalisation is another problem of Pakistan. Globalisation is complicating and confusing, challenging and threatinging for all the thired word countries including Pakistan. Pakistan faces the threat of globalisation our industrial production and export product have to face hard time due to globalisation . 
Terrorism is another problem of Pakistan Extremists have a practiced terrorism to generate fear and fullfil their demands. Main reason of terrorism is our worse foreign policy and a gap between rich and poor people 
Corruption is another problem of Pakistan. Now a days we can see corruption in all feild of life. Worse condition of rule of law, Justice are another problem of Pakistan . 
Reason of our problem According to me reason of all problem is that our moral values are a being eaten up by since, corruption like invisible beasts. Darkness of corruption has spread every where. But we Pakistani do not understand that how serious the matter is and this is the basic reasons of our all problems .
Reconstruction of our moral values is the need of the day. A strong and committed government is the need of the hour. Government should breakup feudal system. It should creat a fair system of tax. Strong law should be made against wrong doer. The time come the govt should understand the importance of self reliance. Govt should made efforts to educate illiterate people. Government should establishing justice in our society. Govt should fellow our ideology in two spirit. We have more meaningful and flexible ideology than other. I think Govt should think about unity of a muslims in the entire word There is an urgent need for bringing important changes which have hetherto been neglected Govt should protect our basic right. It should also arranged different types of educational programs because our social and economic system conected with education, and government should makes these batter. Govt should break up the feudal system because this system is one of the major reson of our problem . 
Govt and we should work enclose co-operation to overcome these problems. We should fight unitedly against our problem with full faith in Allah. One day we will get rid off our problems and Join the family of advanced or develop nation. Govt did little and the country pays a heavy price for the neglect . 
The writing on the wall for the country is the clear and sharp. It is that if we do not chang our political economic and social system for the better, we are going to go down in a history as a fallen nation. The history is a witness that nation who do not learn from their experiences seldom retain their independence, by adopting Islamic code of life. We can reach the highes point of success in the world of time as well in the word of eternity it is know can do something great - Now or Never