 <ICLE-PA-GF-0032.1> 

Parents are a great blessing by God for every person whether he is a child a young lad a young lass or whether he is an old person. Parents are the most prescious gift and nobody can forget them. Especially the mothers are unsepatable part of a person. It is a fact that there is no alternative of the love of the parents .
	Undoubtedly a man and a women and the two wheels of the same carriage. According to Islam, both have equal importance, she helps man not working home but also by working with him. Household affairs are also run successfully by her. She is person in every field of life side by side with man. But as a mother parents she has surpassed father parents .
	As a mother God has assigned her a different role to perform. She has to play different role in life like a daughter, a wife and a mother but as a mother she enjoys a very high status in Islamic society. According to the Holy Prophet (PBUH) paradise lies under the feet of one's mother .
	As a mother she is interested in more difficult tasks of life as well in control of a father. She herself as a mother guard or protect her's children in a better way. Fathers only doing their's jobs from the outside of the have hence they spend their's most of time from the outside of the home. So they are having no so much time to pay special attention or express love to their children. But mother's from the dawn to desk spend their whole time with their children. As Maya Angelo in her poem "The Woman work" says:
 <*> 
According to it, a mother not only do all the work but with it she fulfills the responsibilities of the children in a better way .
For the care of the children, Mothers forget their own self. Mothers sacrifice their whole life for the progress of the children. She guards her children like a gardner and considers her children like little plants. As a shade she protects them from sunheat storm and raining. For making them strong trees she sacrifices her comfort, her's beauty and even her's youth without asking any return .
	If a child become sick, she feels the pain of that baby like a nurse or doctor she treats her baby and even at nights she forgets to sleep. But a father can only provide material support to his child. He can't show or express love and affection like mothers .
	If a child could not show good result in the exams there fathers become so much cruel and stone hearted that they even do not hesitate to beat their innocent children. But in such most sensitive moments, mothers use their wisdom and infuses a new hope, energy and vigour in the child and like an eloquent orator she express such emotions that the 
	"Failure is the pillar of success." In contrast of the fathers, mothers understand the sensitivity of such critical moments .
	The great philosophers, poets, writers and leaders alway express their special love in special words only for their great mothers .
Because they know if they are on high place it is only because of their great mothers. The great Philosopher Aristotle had once said:-
 <*> 
	This saying is also a proof that for the strong base of a nation, mothers play their special part without the constructive role of the mothers a great nation can't inhale into the freshness of the free air and no nation can stabilize itself .
	There are also lot of examples which are the proof that mothers are greater than fathers. We have seen that in most of the cases of child birth, the mother dies after the birth of her's child. In such cases the father marries with another woman because he cannot solely bring up his baby .

But on the other hand a mother solely can bring up her baby in a better way .
We have seen also many cases in which the father divorced their wives because of the different reasons without any care of the future of their innocent children. But a mother never separates her children from herself. She sacrifices hers life and never marries again only for the best future of her children. This comparison is also a solid proof that the former is greater than the latter .

Under all the discussion we can get the main gist of this essay that it is the undeniable 
fact that parents are a great blessing for every body but mothers perform their special role for the best brought up of their children. Hence mother parents are greater than father parents.