 <ICLE-PA-GF-0005.1> 
This is a modern age and the demand of this age to be a successful nation. It is true that our country did not make such progress which is the requirements of our independence. Our people are mostly poor, uneducated and uncultured. There are many evils in our all fields. Administration and institution are full of corrupt. Our law and order situation is not good. Industry, agriculture, import, export are also in bad condition. Religion and molarity are far away from the people of our country. Our politics in bad condition and the most important issue is terrorism. Which has a negative impect on our economical, social and political system.
For a successful country government should adopt following strategies. Firstly. If we want to progress we should have to change our social economic and political system. The outdated feudal system will have to given up. Government should provide the better facilities to rural areas. New agricultural technologies should be introduced so that increase production which not only fulfil the need of our people but also exported to other countries. Secondly-We have to develop our industry by proper planning. Government funds should invest in industries. Which can meet our demand and brings a lot of exchange through export. The labour should be employed in village and city industries. So many people can get employment through setting up industries . 
Thirdly. Education play an important role in the progress of a country. Education system should be well planned and good. For this government should be set up new colleges, schools and universities in different part of country. New educational methodology should be introduced. Scientific centres and research programmes should be set up. Through education we can finish other evils
Health policies of our government not satisfactory. The medical facilities of government hospitals are very bad. The government should contribute to fund for making heath system better . 
Unemployment is a serious problem of present age. Increasing unemployment in villages and cities because of rapid increase in population, slow progress of the country, migration of village workers to cities. Government should take step to provide employment by expanding industries, education and better economic condition of country. The students should be provide jobs after their studies.
Rising prices is another issue. Increase in demands for goods because of big population. So govenment should increase the production of goods and check the growth of population. So the causes of rising prices should be removed. Government should be set up small and big dams and restor the water with the agreement of all the provinces. So with the help of this can generate electrocity which provide the people of their livelihood. For a successful country government should take step to produce electricity according to demand. Another major problem is terrorism. Government should arrange such policy which finish terrorism in country . 
In the last stage the whole political system should be examined by experts to change it for better. We need a most modern and effective system. Wwhich can be Islamic. Government should provide chances to capable people which are patriot
Government should have to a national porgramme of population control. Which is social and national problems. Through education people understand that expanding families beyond a certain point will be dangerous and next generation will be deprived of basic necessities of life like health, education, food through increasing population . 
Government should take step to make people modern, educated and economical stable. If government follow all these steps so country will be progress in righ way and that is the demand of modern age.