 <ICLE-PA-GF-0012.1> 

Man by nature is very enthusiastic to know laws and principles of nature and to know about interesting phenomenon. Education in this regard plays pivotal role by properly guiding man to the area of his/her own interest. Infact education makes a man complete. Without education there is no more difference between wild creatures and human. Islam specifically signifies the importance of education. And make it obligatory to every muslim men and women. And also we can take the example in this regard that Holy Prophet (PBUH) ordered the prisoners of war to educate 10 muslim in regard of jizya. It shows the importance of education. There is another proverb that <*> .
University is such a stage in one's life where he is specializing the field of his own choice. Going little back in study career of a student is Pakistan especially every one have to opt same subjects and pass through the same products of learning. A doctor which is going to operate in future also have to study the mathematics disregard of the fact that he would have nothing to do with that in future and same in the case of an engineer. So firstly we should develop a sensible and proper education system so that one can gain more and more knowledge of the field of his/her choice right from the beginning . 
As it is saying that "little knowledge is dangerous" so we should stop making jacks. In Paki universities students have to face many problems which prove hurdle to quench their thirst for the subject because of the lack of professional faculty and professional labs. They couldn't understand well. So there must be change in university culture of Pakistan and teachers should start taking interest for the better future of their own country . 
In our universities notes culture has developed unfortunately. And one can easily get good marks if he/she is good at cramming. So we should discourage cramming culture and promote the conceptual studies like west. Thats why our university graduates are far behind from their foreign counterparts. So we should establish teaching system based on professional and conceptual basis. Beside the theoretical part we should teach students the practical part of their subjects .
In modern world man has to complete the machines to survives. And the lack of professional and technical persons are felt badly. Now the last hope to overcome this space is university sector. Universities should start making the technical persons which will prove a pillar for our dwindling economy. This will only happen when the students will be well aware of the practical implementation of their knowledge besides the theoretical significance . 
And universities should restrict the studies of humanities because it will grow only clerks and clergies and prove burden for the economy and also risen the rate of unemployment. Therefore students should be prepared to face the challenges of real world . 
Conclusion .
From the above discussion it is clear that the student couldn't survive in the modern world. It is the age of machines. So the theoretical degree will be useless for the students, so sense of the practical implementation of their subject by improvisation. Otherwise their degree will be of very little value. 