 <ICLE-PA-GJ-0008.1> 
"Animals should be preserved they are masterpiece among all the beauties of nature"
The Holy Prophet (P.B.U.H) also advised to treat them kindly because they serve us in various ways .
Animals even insects are real beauty of nature. They add to more beauty .

Quraan also has stressed upon the importance and blessing of animals. All animals are made for the use of man for multipurposes .
Today the modern man has established a world society for the security of animals .
Modern age is not hunting animals for personal hunt and pleasure. In ancient times Kings and their companions used to hunt animals not for their larder but for their personal pleasure. It was very cruel and inhuman treatment toward the beauty of nature. They left many animals to rote often hunt .
Mark Twain also has written in the favour of animals. He says that animals are of higher status because they do not kill animals for nothing. But man try to spoil them for his pleasure. Nature is very abundant and generous in his blessings. We should perform our duties according to morality and true application of the rules of humanity .
We often visit zoo. We enjoy with different kinds of animals. All are masterpiece of nature. They also need our care, and deserve full attention. If we kept them in cages, we should not scare them, we should not tease them. Infect they should not be kept I cages, they should be free. Their freedom is their first right. We should provide their all rights. So that they could enjoy open nature and broad environment . 
God created them free in free nature. They resemble with nature and environment .
In the 19th century Victor Hugo said: <*> 
It is true saying: 
Because animals are better and have so much time to serve us. They enjoy the beauty of nature .
We use animals for our different purposes like horse is used in Tonga and the owner hit him to train him. But it is not fair. Because they are the source of livelihood for different people. We should treat them kindly .
Like this donkey is used to carry weight but owners do not give them proper food and time to be relax the saying work, work and work is for human beings but is utilized for animals. Even the owners do not care about them either they are living beings or non livings. Like this horses are also used in horse races for this purpose they are punished strictly to run fast. Trainer keep them hungry for several hours so that when they will run fast then food will be given to them. Like this bull races camel races, cock fighting and bull fighting are considered very interesting games. Even the horse race is a reason of gambling. In cock and bull fighting these animals fight and the human beings enjoy their fight. Their fight for life is the source of enjoyment for human beings. How cruel act is this? It shows clearly the cruelty of human beings .
Human beings are so cruel in nature that they separate the baby animals and baby birds from their parents as they get chance. They do so for their personal liking and disliking for their business. Some people like pets in their house for this they put pretty birds in cage. They just spoil their life by outing them in cage. Some people have cattle farms that are their profession. But they do not care the animals in that farm. But if it is realized it is their first and foremost duty that being the master of these animals they should look after them and take care of them a lot because they can not speak. They should take care of their food, their rest, their physical condition. They should be protected from severe environmental conditions. If one animal is in your control, it is your responsibility. If it will die due to your ignorance like hunger, disese, thrust etc then you will be responsible for its death . 
That was the overview of domestic animals and pets now we will cast a glance on circus animals. In circus different animals are used for different magic resembling tricks like elephants, horses, cats, dogs, lions, monkeys and even snakes are used for different tricks. The masters destroy the whole life of an animal for their business . 
Although they give them better food but spoil their life for their own sake. These animals can not spend a free life. They give them shelter but snatch the right of their freedom. That is the basic right of every living being. They punish them to be expert in their tricks. They beat them to run in sequence to run with music and run with rhythm. Such people do not think that they are living beings created by God . 
Except that some people are fond of fish. They are also the beauty of water. People put them in aquariums with little water area but they are habitual of wide and vast area they require a vast area to swim freely to interact with other fish and to spend their life in water. But in such environment like at home in aquarium they die soon. Due to such activities and water pollution that is also an indirect source of the spoliation of animal rights most of the aquatic life is in danger and some are extinct. Endangered fish are Dolphin fish. Like air, water, food are the basic necessities of life of every living being but human beings are constantly polluting the air, water and food also . 
There are a lot of instances related by blossom companions of The Holy Prophet (P.B.U.H) which shows that the benefactor of humanity preached and advised us to behave the animals kindly .
He (P.B.U.H) advised that animals should not be branded on their face. They should be branded on their backs .
Islam is full of peace, harmony, cooperation and wisdom. It preached the owner of animals to treat them kindly. So it is our duty to meet the needs which they deserve.