 <ICLE-PA-LW-0005.1> 
It is a common saying that money is the root of evil, but how fair is to blame all evils or even any evil on medium of exchange . 
Its true that money begins happiness on all faces. Money solues our all problems. That how it can be the root of evils. The root of all evils is not money but man's wish to get status and and gloury for others to get higher status. As Holy Prophet (PBUH) said that "The root of all evils is man's love for this world". 
There can be some other aspects that money is not root of all evils. But lack of money leads towards evil deeds. Many people cannot fulfill their desires and are not satisfied with their way of living. They cannot afford expenses of their family. When a father has not enough money even to buy food for his childrens or he cannot pay expenses of his1$	school going child, he is automatically attracted towards wrong way of earning money. This situation leads a person towards evil deeds and enforces him to do illegal works
Money is very important part of our life and is necessary for our survival and live a healthy life. We use money to buy new clothes, to enjoy a life full of luxeries. But some people misuse money as they use it to win election, to win supports or in short to be successful Sometimes rich people are involved in gambling etc . 
For instance one of the major reason, why people say that money is the root of evils because of vast distance between rich and poor, which money defines. Millions of people in some areas of Africa die because they cannot afford money. Many of them die because their government does not provide them better health care. But money defines what we are. One philosophical view is that what we are today and what could be defined from the moment we are created. Our society, our demands, our family, our friends or grooming make us good or bad .
Lack of money leads the people towards destruction. If we talk about our Northern areas, the people there are very poor. They even do not have enough money to buy food or other requirements. When they find their family without eating they adopt wrong means to earn money. It was the wish of money that forced them to go away towards a path, which is appearntly very attractive but is full of thorns .
People comitt crimes to gain money. Even a brother kills his brother only for the sake to get the share. We find a lot of examples related to this and read many news in newspapers. Sometimes son kills his father only to take hold on all business. It is the lust of money that is creating a great destruction in our society . 
Money has created a gulf between people. A rich person does not want to visit his poor relative. Because he thinks that they are poor and are not according to his status . 
We see that money is the basic cause and root of evils. The investigation of any crime mostly leads towards the money. And sometimes the investigation is done in wrong way with the help of money . 
To clinch, we can say that money is the root of evil. As a picture has two sides. And nothing is either good or bad but it's use makes it so. In the same way at one hand money is the source of happiness and at the same times on the other hand it becomes the root of evil and cause of destruction.