 <ICLE-PA-LW-0007.1> 
Basically rich people are considered much happier than the poor people. As they think that the one who has money has everything. First of all let me make clear that who are the rich people. For me those people are not rich who have earned the wealth unlawfully or illegally. The rich person is one who has legally and lawfully earned the money.
And poor people are those who are not having money to fulfill even their basic needs . 
The main reason for this is that they are illiterate. If they were literate people, then they could have job so that they could have the money. For people, money matter a lot. For them money is everything. But in my opinion, I don't think so that rich people are happier that the poor people.
There are different things that may be discussed in this regard. The main reason is that rich people have money but did not have large family. They lived separately where as the poor people mostly live in a joint family system. So the rich have more money and less expenses to spend on family and children etc.
Money causes proudness in the people. So the rich are more proud than the poor. On the other side, poor people are having love in their heart. They know all the conditions of their relatives and neighbours. They share the problems and miseries of others while the rich don't even know the next door neighbours . 
As mostly people praise that May God make poor people wealthy and bring a lot happiness in their life. I would never agree to this point . 
There are many reasons that why I don't agree to this. In my point of view, if there are no poor people, in the world, there would be no life on the earth. If there would be all rich people in the world, then all will be proudy. And no one would be help anyone, there would be no more mankind. Every body would say that I have more money than you so why should I help you. All people would be proudy. There would be no labourors, no servants, no teachers, no other lower professions and lower workers. In this way there would be no life on earth as it exists now. There would be luxuries every where but there would be nothing value of those luxuries as no one would be able to value and regard those luxuries because there shall be no troubles and proples to compare with the luxuries.
As the rich people are having money, they are having nothing spiritually. They are poor spiritually: And the poor people are not having wealth but they are spiritually rich.
Everybody is in search of money and has greed in minds. But they forgot that money is not everything. They forget that still they have a lot. Still they have a lot of such things for which they are to pay thanks to their Creator . 
Man has life, health, body, hands, feet, eyes, senses-all these things are more important than the wealth and luxuries of life, Luxures are not necessesty of life . 
There is one thing more. If there are rich everywhere, who would be close to God Almighty? Money can give food but not satisfaction. Money can give bed but not sleep. Money can give medicines but not peace of mind. And today in the modern times, rich are having money, luxuries, cars, bungalows, palaces but they are lacking mental peace, rest, solace, satisfaction, relations, love and other things like this: A poor sleeps well but a rich need sleeping pills to sleep. Rich is always afraid of the theft, while poor has not fear of anything. Thus it may be said that rich are not happier. Being rich does not mean being happy.