 <ICLE-PA-LW-0010.1> 

Money itself is a very useful tool! We use money to pay our bills, provide for our families, bless those we love. Ever since man first realized the consept of money, whather it was trading dogs teeth, tools, quartz pebbls, cowrie shells, or metal disks to obtain large amount of money has reared its ugly head and marred his history with terrible acts of violence and destruction in the name of gread counterfeiting began along with the introduction of money. But just as easily, money can be used for the most evil purposes, money can be used to fuel the wars, indulge in sinful desires, and wanting to amass more then anything eles leads to eveil. The evil desire to obtain more money leads many to "turn away from the faith" and turn to a life of crime. When the desire of wealth supersedes all other desires that the "want" turns into greed, Greed manifests when one desires possessions simply simply for the sake of money owing them. A person consumed by greed will do whatever it takes to fulfill their desire for wealth. It is one of vilest aspect of our personalities and labeled a "deadly sin".
The desperation and greed causd by unlimited wants, Unequal distribution of resources and a restrictive mean of getting anything. Is the sole and ultimate cause of stress, frustration, anger, rage and thus all crimes .
money is a means to that end. Every thing has a price tag. Everything person can be bought. If someone won't marry you Because s/he finds you unattractive you comsatically/ surgically alter your appearance using ' money'. The one you want does not like your personality, you can change your personality by paying for a course or workshop. Love of money involved turning away from heavenly, good and righteous mindsets and instead focusing on worshiping poseessions and amassing money. Often when a person indulges in greed, They will harm other in their quest for money. Almost any crime can be linked to the love of money - Robbery leading to assault and something murder, Wars between countries lusting for resources and power, selling drugs, theft and of poverty, Even the pettiest criminal acts, Such as vandalism, can be rooted in Jealousy of another's wealth. Get private investigators, Bribe the police, Bribe lawyers or hire extremely expensive ones. You can spit in the face of justice / morality. You can get anything and everything . 
Did money itself rise up and demand these individuals walk down this path of destruction?
No, money is simply a tool, an item used to trade for goods and services,
It is not a separate entity of its own. It has no free will, It has no voice. But when a man chooses to lust after the power and prestige money can bring. That is evil. When a person chooses to do whatever it takes to obtain. Money that is evil. The love of money is the root of all evil.