 <ICLE-PA-LW-0011.1> 
Marriage is a social union or legal contract between individuals, that creates kinship. It is an institution in which interpersonal relationships usually intimate and sexual are acknowledge in a varity of ways depending on culture or subculture in which it is found. Such a union may also be called matrimeny while the ceremony that make its usually called wedding . 
Why do marriages fail?
While the answer to question are many, there is growing factors that create barriers to oneness in marriage and increase a couple's chances for marital failure .
The seeds of distress and possible divorce were already sown before the couples went to the alter . 
Certain marriage are doomed to failure, and there is nothing a couple can do .
While discussing failure of marriages it is necessary to discus these four negative risk factors that can be barrier to oneness, for oneness is God's design for marriage .
According to research done over last two decades, negative patteron can destroy a relationship. Couples who want to save their marrieg need to focus on changing these negative behaviour pattern .
Escalation occour when partnor respond back and fort, continuouslly upping the ante so the conversation gets more and more hostile. Peter <R> says, <*> . 
Marriages that will have problems and even fail, find that arguments escalate so that such damaging things are said that they may even threaten the life blood of marriage .
Escalation can develop into three different ways . 1st is a major shouting fight that may erupt over a conflict as small as putting the cap back on toothpaste. As the battle heat up, the partners get more and more angry, saying mean things about each other. Frequently there are threats to end the relationship . 
Once negative comments are made, they are hard to take back and drive a knife into partner's heart .
Proverbs <R> says <*> 
When an argument escalate every comment and vulnerability become fair game concern failing and past mistake can know be used by the attacking partner .
Damaging escalation is not always dramatic. Voices do not have to be raised for couple to get in to a cycle of returning negative for negative. Conflict over paying the rent, taking out the garbage, running errands that result into muttering to oneself, rolling your eyes, or throwing up your hands can also be example of Escalation .
"Invalidation" best predictor of future problem and divorce, in it one partner directly put down the thoughts feeling and character of others. A husband may put his wife down because she is most emotional and easily hurts by comments. A husband may invalidate a wife fear about children saftly, ultimately partners receiving these comments being to share less and less so that intimate level of sharing evaporates .
3rd risk factor is "negative interpretation". This occur when one partner consistently believes that motive of other are more negative then is really the case. Such behaviour can be very distructive pattern in a relationship and quickly erode intimacy and oneness in a marriage. Attacked partner give up trying to make himself or herself clear and become demoralized .
The last of thee have two descriptors: Withdrawal and avoidance. These are two different manifestation of the problem where in a partner is unwilling to get in or stay in a discussion that is too threatening . 
Withdrawal can be as obvious as getting up and leaving the room or as subtle as turning off or shutting down during an argument . 
When husband withdraw, wife feel shut out and believes that he does not care about marriage. In other word, "Lack of talking equal lack of caring".