 <ICLE-PA-LW-0014.1> 
Media plays an important role in the development of a country as well as society. Infact media is the connection between government and people. Through media people remain in touch with the government. Media plays watchdog role in any state. But in modern times media is more harmful than useful. It is misleading the people and becoming the cause to create misunderstanding between government and people . 
If we talk about our own country Pakistan, then print media, electronic media as well as modern media are more harmful than useful. As Pakistan is facing a lot of problems and among these problems terrorism is the major problems. Almost everyday a bomb blasts at any place then media immediately reaches on the place of incidents and starts coverage. Then on TV we see that there is blood and people are in the state of fear and are running away from the place. Or there may be a scene with the dead bodies. This creates fear in the people sitting in their homes. They feel more unsecure and these incidents increase their depression . 
The print media publishes the news that how many people died and became the victim of this blast. Sometimes we find media too much indulged in the incident. Though it is good to inform people. But sometimes over information leads towards great destruction. For instance if we talk about the recent incident of terrorism on the praying places of Ahmedies. Then media informed people that a terrorist is admitted in Jinnah Hospital Lahore. This information became beneficial for terrorist. They attacked on Hospital. In this way this information of media opened a way for them but it became a danger and harmful for the people and government .
Electronic media, i-e radio and television and modern media i-e cable and internet is leading our young generation towards a wrong path. Mostly the programms of children are not according to their mind. Our media presents the programs which are mostly related to Hindu culture. Hindu heroes and their gods and their customs are presented in these programms. Children are innocent. They copy what they watch. In this way they do not learn their own Muslim culture. They do not know about their own national heroes. In this way media is becoming the source to penetrate an other culture and is becoming harmful . 
Media is penetrating another language in our children. When they watch programms of cartoons which are mostly in Hindi then they start speaking these words. In this way their language becomes mixture of two languages but they do not have full command on anyone. In this way modern media is more harmful than useful .
Modern media is leading our young generation away from studies in modern times. They are going away from their destination. For instance on internet they always remain busy poor in chating with their friends. In this way they spend their most of time in useless activity. They do not pay much attention toward their studies. They start playing games on internet and doing their own work. In this way media in modern times is more harmful than useful .
Meida in modern times has created a complex between poor people. In newspaper there must publishes a page of fashion design. The upper class follows the fashion but poor people who do not have enough money to buy such costly things become the victim of inferority complex. And to earn more money they choose wrong paths such as corruption etc. It is the media in the modern time which is enhancing different crimes in the world . 
Media in modern times has change the way of life of people is so bad that it is becoming more harmful than useful.