 <ICLE-PO-UCS-0003.1> 
Astrology means the art of observing the position of the stars in the belief that they influence human affairs. Astrology started to develop in antiquity, flourished in the Middle Ages. Now it is very often neglected and treated as a pseudo-science. It was astrology that helped astronomy to develop as priests in ancient Mesopotamia and Egypt were so much interested in observing the stars and planets. Nowadays astrology has been using what astronomers have learnt about the heavenly bodies .
Today the signs of Zodiac are what an ordinary person attributes astrology with .
Although we do not always believe the assumption that the twelve signs of Zodiac may convey the truth about the features of one's personality in fact we usually know our signs .
There are as many interpretations of the signs of Zodiac as pseudo-astrologers so there is no point in taking all the revelations too seriously. In fact all people seem to share similar traits of character, no matter what signs they belong to. The world is full of ambitious and resolute persons who are at the some time reliable and sensitive.	From knowing one's sign of Zodiac it is only one step to cast him a horoscope. We come across them everywhere. Horoscopes are present in various magazines and newspapers, even on television. Almost everybody has attempted to read at least once what 'stars' tell about the future: what we can expect at work and whether we will have any problems with health. Even if we read horoscopes for fun, good predictions set our fears at rest. People's desire to satisfy curiosity is a gold mine for many fortune-tellers .
Professional astrologers claim that in a correct horoscope many facts must be taken into consideation. It is necessary to know not only the birthplace but also the precise time of birth. There are not many genuine astrologers, mainly because astrology demands extensive knowledge from different fields such as psychology and medicine. The learning is arduous. However, astrologers maintain that it is a worth-while effort as it allows to acquire the knowledge of the world's inner harmony into which man is mingled. Astrologers stress, and it is worth remembering, that horoscopes are more or less probable but they never prove correct completely .
All things considered, one should not take to heart what he or she has read in a horoscope. We cannot forecast future events. It is better to rely on common sense, work or even intuition than on predictions .
On the other hand we must be aware that despite the development of civilization a lot still remains unknown. It refers to astrology causing so much controversy. Little do scientists now about the influence of the planets and stars on the world and that is why astrology is so often held with contempt. This may, however, change with time .
