 <ICLE-PO-POZ-0020.1> 
Huge number of people begin studies every year. The appetite for knowledge, abundant social life and lure of the so-called academic world has brought them all to big cities, where universities and colleges are located. And there they have been affected by academic way of living, so rich in purely theoretical courses that are hardly, if at all, relevant to the outside world. Before passing entrance exams most students had hoped that after three or five years of studies they would reach a kind of prestige and social high status, and this position will secure relatively high salaries. In reality, though, things are different. People who have already got various degrees lack basic abilities to cope with the problems of the real world. Moreover, it is this ability which is valued, rather than the knowledge of theory .
Academic staff, together with students, create a world of its own, a vacuum for which nothing from the outside world is of any interest and hardly anything out of it is applicable beyond its boundaries. Universities are totally isolated from the outside world, scholars focus on some abstract disputes rather on their possible implications. Instead coming up with theory-based solutions for today's problems, scientists stick to their useless theories in which nobody is interested except themselves .
It is no wonder, then, that students graduating from such stagnant worlds lack skills that might prove handy in the real world. The majority of subjects taught at universities contribute to the students' general knowledge, although later on, provided that a student does not choose academic career, nobody will pay any attention to the courses that a given student completed. Rather, he would be interested in the practical skills and abilities to cope with certain problems, which universities seem to have neglected .
Even if the need for such skills has been recognised by academic world, students taking part in more practical courses cannot resist the feeling that their practice is both unreal and simulated. Consequently, they do not treat those courses properly, not performing as well as they would have been forced to in a real life situation. As a result of such an attitude students do not benefit from those courses anyway .
Apart from that, universities do not develop skills of making one's way through ruthless reality. As students at universities, they feel secure and comfortable, but at the same time, unaware of the problems existing outside. They proud themselves on getting a high grade for some theoretical projects or congratulation on a given lecture, whereas, in fact, it is life that assesses, not teachers .
Degrees achieved by students at universities present no value. Despite of their being challenging, or even thrilling, for one has to put much effort into them, one has to be careful not to pay too much attention to the academic work. Since universities fail to prepare for the real world, students have to do this on their own, probably applying for the job while still studying. After all, total negligence of the outside world may result in an inability to cope with its problems. And this would be a disaster .
