 <ICLE-PO-SUS-0006.1> 
Death penalty - the most severe capital punishment for breaking the law (usually for committing the most serious of crimes, that is, premeditated murder). This kind of penalty is used rarely, and in not all countries, only in cases of ruthless murderers and heavy criminals, for whom life of other human beings does not count .
In my opinion, capital punishment should never be abolished. It ought to exist and help to keep our world free from violence, vengeance, rapes, murders and all terrible kinds of crimes committed with cold blood. The criminals must be separated from the society as quickly as it is possible but I think, they should not undergo any rehabilitation. Firstly, it does not help to change their rotten minds into minds of sensitive, righteous people. Secondly, this costs a lot of money to keep them. After a long sentence they would come out of jail as better professional murderers and more depraved maniacs. Then they would be more dangerous for the society than they had been before .
To present my point of view even more clearly, let me consider such a case. Two 23 years old degenerate men rape and kill a 10 years old girl. At first, they tie her up so hard that her thin legs and hands are bleeding. They hit her head many times, then they rape her. Those drunk men almost tear her delicate body apart. When it is finished, they throw beer cans using her as a target. She is lying unconscious all in her own innocent blood. As if this would not be enough, they make a loop on a rope and try to hang the girl on a tree. The branch is not strong enough and it breaks. The girl is not dead, she is breathing which makes those two men very angry. They throw her down from a bridge nearby. She is falling 40 feet down to be killed on sharp rocks beneath. They did it for fun killing her in a sophisticated, thought-over way. For them the law should be merciless. They are useless for the society and when at large, they are very dangerous, heartless and pitiless criminals. There is no hope for their having any remorse or scruples about committing the same or even worse crimes in future .
Therefore, the most threatening barbarians, killers should be given the life sentence and removed from the society at once not to let their sick minds rule, threaten and destroy our world. I believe in justice and safety which should be ensured by the law .
