 <ICLE-PO-SUS-0003.1> 
The present century stands on the edge of a threating transformations in human environment, largely because of the impact of immoral practices of manipulation of genes - cloning. Though cloning may be best described as "civilised destruction" there is another aspect to it with totally different aims and results and without potential menace to humanity .
We do not fully understand that what seems to be challenge to ethics is part of our every day life, not so frighning yet starting the whole idea of gene manipulation. Cloning has been doomed for its intervention with evolutional nature of man, which may prove one day destructive for the whole kind of man. However, some of its practices has been employed on everyday ground with much reduced threat as those practices do not endanger humanity. What I bear in mind is that we regular cloners. Every green-thumbed housewife clones cutlings; every agriculturist "twins" fruit and vegetable without a fear of what this practice may develop into. They fiddle with genes reproducing them sequentially and create mirror reflection of all bananas, oranges or tomatoes we eat. And we accept this method - we admire cloned flowers, we buy cloned plants - we are "accessories after the fact".
Although I treated this aspect of cloning in a rather humorous way, its another connotation is not that amusing. Man has been entangled in age-old dream to improve biological and mental nature of man. However, this improvement frightens even the most optimistic. This enterprise promoted under a pompous shield of helping humanity at braking through commonplace echoes with its double morality. Everyone is perfect from the biological point of view and artificial enhancement of positive elements may cause inadevrtable changes not only in human organism but also in human psyche. What ethics questions is the operation on the individual who deprived of his own self is mutated into apparently "perfect" organism. His construction of genes is violated and replaced by an artificial set of new ones. The scientists claim that this is the best way of relieving our society of individuals of "average" capacity, to condition higher form of existence, but actually something more is hidden there, which partakes of insanity and badly understood perfect harmony. Through cloning it is possible to outmanouvre the nature, to control the populace and eventually to create machine like. It is thus not difficult to gather from those points that cloning does not only mean alternation within human body or the natural condition of human sort but mainly the shift of hirarchy of values through designing easy to controll earsats of individuals. Fortunately our century has not been witnessing so advanced manipulation of genes and that cloning particulary refers to innocent alternation within "consumption products" and future distopian vision of humanity. Although this vision is merely based on prediction one must bear in mind that there is only one little step from cloning bananas to cloning a man. Hence we must ensure ourselves against the nightmare of the forthcoming century by rulling out the manipulation of genes and accepting the nature of man developed over the millenniums .
