 <ICLE-PO-SUS-0002.1> 
The Word "Work" Carries a very general implication. That is why the subject will have to be treated from many different angles . "Work" seems to mean something totally different for different people. Although it is always connected with some physical strength or mental power it may connote various aspects. Whereas by some people it is considered to be the only way to survive, the so called "last resort" or a kind of responsibility, for others it is only pleasure to kill their time. Whether it is a blessing or a curse depends on how it is treated, what our expectations and aims are .
Blessing is always regarded as something very positive. It is something that brings happiness into our lives. Very often it is understood as God's favour and protection which means it is something holy we have to care about and make use of, otherwise we will get punished. This is just the way we view work very often. We treat it like a valuable gift from a merciful God who enabled us to use our skills and abilities, who provided us with the good source of getting money in order to support ourselves or / and our families. The unemployed being on the dole will certainly consider any sort of work as a miracle they have been looking for ward to. A businessman who has started to build up his career will not reject any proposal, no matter how much hard work and effort it would require from him, to buy a better car, a larger house and so on and so forth. In other words he would regard this opportunity as even a double blessing .
Work, however, is not always seen as a blissful experience. It can cause a lot of disagreement between people, it can make people dependent on it to such an extent that they finally neglect their health, family and other vital things. Very often very hard work, either physical or mental, which is not bound to lead to any success may be a curse for people performing it .
As far as I am concerned I look upon work as a blessing in the full meaning of this word. Although for many different reasons I would not be obliged to work hard or even take up the least demanding job, I would get bored to death if I didn't have anything to do .
The idea of idling does not appeal to me at all. Sometimes I do have a feeling that I need a break, that I need to run away from all the earthly duties and worries connected with my job. On the other hand, however, I could not spend a single day whitout referring to my job, school assignments or worrying about when I will get some time to clean the windows or to have my house decorated. Therefore, being able to work means a lot to me. I would never like to be deprived of this gorgeous experience .
